docno="lists-060-10608341"
received="Sun Nov 10 19:07:57 2002"
isoreceived="20021111000757"
sent="Sun, 10 Nov 2002 19:07:56 -0500"
isosent="20021111000756"
name="send@offermania.com"
email="send@offermania.com"
subject="STOP THE MLM INSANITY.."
id="X75M3U1TPR3SS35C9JJ.54YE5M3DRRNN5O8K0QE.send@offermania.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-wai-curric@w3.org


Greetings! 

 

You are receiving this letter because you have expressed 

an interest in receiving information about online business 

opportunities. If this is erroneous then please accept my 

most sincere apology. This is a one-time mailing, so no 

removal is necessary. 

 

If you know how to send out e-mails (just like this one) 

and if you know how to "copy and paste" (instructions 

will be included) then you can literally make THOUSANDS 

of dollars per WEEK with this company!  I reached the 

$1200.00 mark in my second month and it has grown 

monthly since.  It doesn't get any easier than this!!!

 

If you've been burned, betrayed, and back-stabbed by 

multi-level marketing, MLM, then please read this letter. 

It could be the most important one that has ever landed 

in your Inbox. 

 

MULTI-LEVEL MARKETING IS A HUGE MISTAKE FOR 

MOST PEOPLE. 

 

MLM has failed to deliver on its promises for the past 50 

years. The pursuit of the "MLM Dream" has cost hundreds 

of thousands of people their friends, their fortunes 

and their sacred honor. 

 

The fact is that MLM is fatally flawed, meaning that it CAN 

NOT work for most people. The companies and the few who 

earn the big money in MLM are NOT going to tell you the 

real story. 

 

FINALLY, there is someone who has the courage to cut 

through the hype and lies and tell the TRUTH about MLM. 

 

HERE'S GOOD NEWS: 

 

There IS an alternative to MLM that WORKS and works 

BIG! If you haven't yet abandoned your dreams, then you 

need to see this. Earning the kind of income you've dreamed 

about is easier than you think! 

 

With your permission, we would like to send you a brief letter 

that will tell you WHY MLM doesn't work for most people and 

we will then introduce you to something so new and refreshing 

that you'll wonder why you haven't heard of this before. 

 

I promise that there will be NO unwanted follow up, any sales pitch 

pitch, no one will call you, and your email address will only be 

used to send you the information - Period. 

 

To receive this free, life-changing information, simply send an

e-mail to us with "send info" in the subject line to: 

 

   future_mlm@hotmail.com

 

*** Important - You MUST put "Send Info" in the Subject Box in order

to receive this information.  We cannot forward the info without this.  

We will get the information to you within 24 hours. Just look for the 

words MLM WALL OF SHAME in your Inbox. 

 

Cordially, 

The Future_MLM Team

 

P.S. Someone recently sent the letter to us and it has been 

the most eye-opening, financially beneficial information I have 

ever received. I honestly believe that you will feel the same 

way once you've read it. And it's FREE!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

You are receiving this e-mail because you have opted-in to receive special

offers from Optinsale.com or one of it's marketing affiliates. If you feel

you have received this e-mail in error or do not wish to receive additional

special offers, please scroll down to unsubscribe.

 

This E-mailing has been sent to you as a person interested in the information

enclosed. This E-mail is not SPAM under the Federal Regulatory laws of the 

United States. This message is being sent to you in compliance with the 

proposed Federal Legislation for commercial e-mail (H.R.4176-SECTION 101 

PARAGRAPH (e) (1) (A)) and Bill s.1618 TITLE III passed by the 105th US 

Congress. We sincerely apologize for any inconvenience. This message is 

not intended for residents of WA, NV, CA, & VA. Screening of addresses 

has been done to the best of our technical ability. If you are a California,

Nevada, Washington, or Virginia resident please follow the instructions

below and you will be permanently removed from our list immediately.

 

If you would like to be removed from our E-Mail list,
please click here> http://www.optinsale.com/store_free/unsubscribe.htm
and you will be removed from our list within 4 days



