docno="lists-004-7010778"
received="Fri Sep 26 11:45:50 2003"
isoreceived="20030926154550"
sent="Fri, 26 Sep 2003 17:46:30 +0200"
isosent="20030926154630"
name="youmetaylor@rediffmail.com"
email="youmetaylor@rediffmail.com"
subject="A CRY FOR HELP"
id="20030926154355.C5BD1A0537@frink.w3.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



Dear Beloved,

My proposal to you will be very surprising, as we have not had any Personal contact before. However, I sincerely seek your confidence in this transaction, which I propose to you as a person of transparency,honesty and high caliber.Let me first start by introducing myself properly to you. My name is Yourme Taylor,i am the son to President Charles Taylor, the President of Republic of Liberia. I got your email address from network directory. I apologize if I have infringed on your privacy.

It may interest you to know that my Father (former President Charles Taylor)has been fighting serious civil war with the Liberia United for the Restoration of Democracy (LURDS) for quite some years now. The LURDS has been backed (all along) by some foreign powerful countries.Not quite long ago, the American government ordered My Father to leave Liberia or be forced out of power. Knowing fully well the capabilities of America and other powerful members of the United Nations,my Father(President Charles Taylor) decided on the 11th of August 2003 to go into exile in a neighboring country Nigeria to seek asylum. He is presently in a town called calabar is Nigeria.A new government headed by Vice President Mr Moses Blah has been sworn in.

Based on these developments, the various foreign bank accounts of my Father are already being investigated. News just came in that one of the fattest accounts he has in Switzerland has been frozen. In the light of all these sad happenings, my Father, through the help of his loyalists has secretly moved a sum of US$30m(THIRTY MILLION UNITED STATES DOLLARS]to a private security company vault in europe and right now,my Father wants the services of a highly reliable foreigner that will receive the funds into his/her  bank account for the future survival of my family because he cannot presently operate any foreign bank account on his name.

These funds (US$30m) arose from various compensation he received from the sales of rubber, timber and diamonds which are abound in great quantity around the coastal areas of the country.My father and I have decided that if you are able assist us,you shall be compensated with 20% commission of the funds, 5% of this money shall be set aside to take care of any local or foreign expenses that might be incurred along the line. My family will make do with the remaining 70% of the funds. It might also interest you to note that all security arrangements regarding this transaction has been put in place, therefore,you have nothing whatsoever to fear or worry about.

Most part of this share (80%) for my family will also be invested in your country courtesy of your full advice and assistance because that is the most importat part of this transaction.

As you indicate interest to assist my family,I will be expecting to receive your kind and urgent response through this more confidential email address
(yourmetaylor@yahoo.com) for us to proceed to more details on this pending transaction.

God bless you as you respond promptly.

Best regards,

Yourme Taylor.



