docno="lists-046-10397319"
received="Fri Dec 12 09:03:46 2003"
isoreceived="20031212140346"
sent="Fri, 12 Dec 2003 15:01:35 +0100"
isosent="20031212140135"
name="Andrej Gustin"
email="andrej.gustin@crea.si"
subject="CREA: implementation of XML signature"
id="!~!UENERkVCMDkAAQACAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABgAAAAAAAAAqwuu8uhJ5kSjUP4XOQ4cJsKAAAAQAAAAYRKZTTBl2kua+3/2W1pIzAEAAAAA@crea.si"
charset="iso-8859-2"
expires="-1"

To:<w3c-ietf-xmldsig-request@w3.org>
Cc:<w3c-ietf-xmldsig@w3.org>,"Andrej Gustin"<andrej.gustin@crea.si>


Hello.
 
We would like to inform you about our implementation of XML signature  
for Windows operation system. We developed and implemented client site
CreaSign component for further integration into client site solutions
and Crea ESign Portal as an open, flexible and extensible platform that
allows for straightforward implementation of dedicated web solutions and
their integration with the back-office environment. They both fully
support and implement both digital signature standard formats (pkcs#7
and XML signature). Please feel free to read more in this e-mail.  
 
We would very appreciate, if a link to CREA homepage
(http://www.crea.si)
on W3C's XML signature site (http://www.w3.org/Signature/) in chappter
Toolkits, SDKs, and Products can be added.
 
Thank you very much for your help and cooperation.
 
Best regards, Andrej Gu?tin, M.Sc.
Busines Development Manager
--------------------------
CREA, Tivolska 50
1000  Ljubljana
tel: +386 1 5186681
fax: +386 1 5186682
web: www.crea.si
-------------------------- 
 
 
 
 
CreaSign is a client component that supports various functionality
including smart card operations, digital certificates and digital
signature. It integrates different low level cryptographic modules into
integral functionality blocks that are exposed to other applications.
The CreaSign component can be easily integrated into different layers of
a specific solution, i.e. web browser, thick client application, middle
tier of a server application/platform (i.e. CREA ESign Portal) or into a
stored procedure in a database. When properly integrated into an
end-user application it follows all the EU and UN legislation guidelines
thus it complies with local legislation in all the countries that
implement the mentioned legal recommendations. CreaSign is based on
various Microsoft and third-party cryptographic components and is
exposed through COM+ or ActiveX interfaces. It supports and implements
both digital signature formats pkcs#7 and XML signature.
 
CREA ESign Portal is an open, flexible and extensible platform that
allows for straightforward implementation of dedicated web solutions and
their integration with the back-office environment. It is designed with
high availability, performance and especially high-end security in mind.
Web solutions incorporate both B2EU (GUI) and B2B (GUI-less)
applications that use secure Internet communication as the primary means
of communication. CREA ESign Portal is based on Microsoft .NET
Technology.
The extensible architecture of both solutions enables development of
various flexible end-user solutions that meet the specific requirements
in the best way. Some of the most relevant implementations are listed in
chapter 9.1. The quality of architecture, design and deployment has been
verified by several independent institutions in Slovenia. 
 
 
About CREA
CREA, Ltd. is a Slovenian company in the field of information systems
security, development of high-end security applications, B2B solutions,
BPM (business process management) and integration. Company's activities
include consulting services, project management, and support for
customers, software development, installation and implementation along
with maintenance in the area of information systems security.
Partnerships with leading vendors (Microsoft, ActivCard and a number of
Slovenian and foreign companies) cover wide range of activities, from
case studies, design, development and implementation to technical
support and training.
Experts in information security, B2B solutions and integration founded
the company in September 2001. The core CREA development and support
team has been gathering experience and skills in the field of designing
and developing e-banking and e-business applications, ActivCard
solutions for more than nine years. CREA personnel today counts 15
people working in sales, service & support, development, engineering and
administration facility on a single location in Ljubljana.
The solutions are primarily laid on Microsoft Windows platforms
integrated with ActivCard solutions. The technologies we are engaged in
are: Microsoft .NET, smart card & token technologies (ActivCard), Java,
COM+/DCOM, MSMQ, MSSQL, ORACLE, DB2, XML/SOAP, VISUAL C++ and BizTalk.
 
 
 



