docno="lists-078-7209063"
received="Mon Mar 11 10:53:46 2002"
isoreceived="20020311155346"
sent="Mon, 11 Mar 2002 11:05:24 -0400"
isosent="20020311150524"
name="Dana Louise Simberkoff"
email="danalouise@hisoftware.com"
subject="HiSoftware announces versions 4.0 of Accessibility Solutions"
id="PLEKKENCIFBNNBOJPNPKIEEADAAA.danalouise@hisoftware.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>


Hello All-

HiSoftware is announcing the upcoming release of version 4.0 of our
accessibility solutions product line.

This release will includes some extremely important new features for Web
developers, Quality Assurance teams and accessibility Project Managers.

Best Regards,
Dana Louise Simberkoff
HiSoftware Company
www.hisoftware.com
+1-603-229-3055

**********

Please read the full release in text below or visit the link below to read
the release online:
http://www.hisoftware.com/press/pacc4.htm


For Immediate Release:

HiSoftware's New Accessibility Solutions Introduce the Next Generation of
Accessibility and Usability Testing Software.

Empower designers, developers and quality assurance teams with comprehensive
and scalable accessibility testing and remediation features

Concord, NH - March 11, 2002 - HiSoftware, Inc. today announced the 4.0
release of its Acc Product family, which will usher in a new generation of
accessible Internet content and applications. HiSoftware will deliver a
major release of its Accessibility and Usability testing, repair,
monitoring, and management solutions on March 15, 2002. These applications
will introduce new features that will dramatically decrease the cost of
making Internet, Intranet, and Extranet content and Web based applications
accessible and usable. The new releases will be available on March 15. For
more information, please visit www.hisoftware.com/acc4.html.

"This release of HiSoftware's 'Acc' product series demonstrates the
company's commitment to accessibility of Web content for people with
disabilities, said Mike Paciello, CTO and Founder of WebABLE, Inc. "The
enhancements and new features in this release provide Web site
administrators with an accessibility analytics tool second-to-none."

HiSoftware's Web Site Accessibility Testing and Repair Solutions allow users
to Verify, Correct, Monitor and Manage their Web Sites and Web Based
Applications in accordance with:

US Section 508 Standards
IBM Accessibility Guideline
WCAG 1.0 Priority One-Three guidelines, and all standards "derived fully or
in part from the WCAG 1.0 Guidelines, including but not limited to:
-Canadian Government (CLF - Accessibility Standards and Guidelines)
-HTML Writers Guild Accessibility Standards
-Australian Government Guidelines
-United Kingdom Guidelines
-IE Guidelines
-European Union Recommendations/Guidelines for ALL Member States

HiSoftwares Web site accessibility solutions, AccVerify, AccRepair,
AccMonitor Server, and AccessibilityWATCH, assist organizations in achieving
and maintaining accessible Web sites. These solutions, available as desktop
applications and as automated server solutions, help organizations develop
long-term strategies to achieve Web content accessibility. They allow
multiple users to work collaboratively on Web site accessibility-resulting
in reductions in time and resources allocated to accessibility.

"The next generation of HiSoftware Web site Accessibility and Usability
testing solutions allow Designers, Developers, Quality Assurance Teams and
Content Managers to build on their existing knowledge and skills to deliver
effective, accessible and usable Internet content", said Robert B. Yonaitis,
CEO of HiSoftware. "Our Accessibility/Usability testing solutions provide
increased return on investment for companies, and equal access as well as
enhanced user experience to every site visitor"

HiSoftwares accessibility solutions enhance the accessibility testing
workflow with a flexible workspace that can be customized to maximize
productivity for both designers and Quality Assurance teams. A set-up wizard
allows users to easily configure software to accelerate testing and
remediation work and to ensure a common experience in testing across Web
sites and applications. The Acc product families open architecture and
extensible Application Program Interface, API, allow developers to
integrate these solutions into their Web site publishing or testing
architectures and application development environments such as Microsoft
Corporations Visual Studio.Net.

AccVerify 4.0 supports testing against all major accessibility standards and
guidelines, and fully enables project managers to keep a complete audit
trail of their accessibility work. AccRepair and AccMonitor Server with
Repair 4.0 will also include, as part of the complete accessibility toolkit,
HiSoftwares award winning metadata generation software applications,
TagGen. and Metadata Server, to allow organizations to develop metadata for
their Web sites, in accordance with International accessibility guidelines
and recommendations.

For a detailed breakdown of the new and enhanced features in HiSoftwares
upcoming accessibility solution releases, visit
http://www.hisoftware.com/acc4.html.



