docno="lists-003-12081965"
received="Mon Dec 30 17:45:15 2002"
isoreceived="20021230224515"
sent="Mon, 30 Dec 2002 14:45:03 -0800 (PST)"
isosent="20021230224503"
name="Abacha Mohammed"
email="abamoha@dygo.com"
subject="HELLO"
id="20021230224504.2532B420A@sitemail.everyone.net"
expires="-1"

To:abamoha@dygo.com



Greetings

I know that this email will come to you as a deep
surprise judging from the fact that we have not met
before. I got your details from a director at the
Federal Ministry of External Affairs. He is not aware
of what I am about to introduce to you as this
transaction requires strict confidentiality. I
therefore decided to contact you to assist me in the
venture mentioned below. 

I am the first son of General Sanni Abacha, the late
Military Head of State of Nigeria. I have been in
detention for past four years and I was only granted
bail recently by an Abuja High Court when the
government requested that my family should return two billion United 
States dollars for my freedom. This was agreed in principal and upon my 
release, I have refused to honor the pledge because there was some 
loopholes in my agreement with the Government and the money issue which I 
consider to be my family's money duly earned. 

This is why we need a foreign partner to whom the money will 
transferred and who will contact the Central Bank of Nigeria(C.B.N) and make a 
claim of the money. This money is question is presently in a 
numbered(coded) account at the C.B.N  awaiting 
claim upon presentation of ownership details which include the account 
access number and the transfer authorisation code.

Now, on behalf of my family I wish to beg of you to help in this 
regards because with the current searchlight beamed on my family activities, 
we are
afraid that the money may be discovered. This is why
we need a foreign partner whom will make a claim of the funds and 
transfer the funds to either  Europe, America or Asia. 
The total sum of this money is US$41,500,000.00 and
because of the many restrictions placed on my family
by the present Nigerian Government, it has become
impossible for either me or any immediate member of my
family to travel outside Nigeria or even operate
personal accounts successfully both home and abroad
with undue government interference. I will explain my
family situation to you later, if you are interested
in knowing. 

What I now want you to do for my family and myself are
as follows:- 

(1) You should help transfer and secure the funds on our behalf in your 
bank account in your Country, pending further instructions from my 
family. 

(2) My family will be willing to give you 20% of  the
total $41.5 Million as your commission for 
your assistance.  

(3) As soon as you confirm to me through my email of
your readiness to assist,I shall send you the Account Access Number and 
the transfer Authorisation (code) that will a be proof of ownership and 
grant you authority to claim the funds

(4) As soon as you have the funds in your account,  I
will give you details of where and which 
sector you will invest my family's share of  the funds
into, on our behalf, in your Country. 

(5) Please note that this project is very legal and
100% risk free, because the funds in question are private family funds 
which are be legally kept with the C.B.N.

(6) You must keep it very secret and confidential
because of my personal and family security. 

It is also pertinent to state that we shall enter into
an agreement with you, indicating the stakes of every
party to this transaction. 

Please contact me immediately, via my email ,
informing me the possibility of your assistance. 

Waiting for your immediate response.            
             
Best regards. 

Mohammed Abacha 



