docno="lists-011-6158192"
received="Tue Jul 29 07:06:38 1997"
isoreceived="19970729110638"
sent="Tue, 29 Jul 1997 09:39:07 0400"
isosent="19970729133907"
name="InternetDrafts@ietf.org"
email="InternetDrafts@ietf.org"
subject="I-D ACTION:draft-ietf-http-feature-scenarios01.txt"
id="9707290939.aa07134@ietf.org"
expires="1"

To:IETF-Announce@ietf.org
Cc:http-wg%cuckoo.hpl.hp.com@hplb.hpl.hp.com


 A Revised Internet-Draft is available from the on-line Internet-Drafts 
 directories. This draft is a work item of the HyperText Transfer Protocol 
 Working Group of the IETF.                                                

       Title     : Feature Tag Scenarios                                   
       Author(s) : K. Holtman, A. Mutz
       Filename  : draft-ietf-http-feature-scenarios-01.txt
       Pages     : 8
       Date      : 07/28/1997

Recent Internet applications, such as the World Wide Web, tie together a 
great diversity in data formats, client and server platforms, and 
communities.  This has created a need for various kinds of negotiation 
mechanisms, which tailor the data which is exchanged, or the exchange 
process itself, to the capabilities and preferences of the parties 
involved.               
                                                   
Extensible negotiation mechanisms need a vocabulary to identify various 
things which can be negotiated on.  To promote interoperability, a 
registration process is needed to ensure that that this vocabulary, which 
can be shared between negotiation mechanisms, is developed in an orderly, 
well-specified, and public manner.            
                             
This document discusses requirements and scenarios the registration of this
vocabulary, which is the vocabulary of feature tags.  Feature tag 
registration is foreseen as an ongoing, open process which will keep pace 
with the introduction of new features by software vendors, and other 
parties such as standards bodies.                                          

Internet-Drafts are available by anonymous FTP.  Login with the username
"anonymous" and a password of your e-mail address.  After logging in,
type "cd internet-drafts" and then
     "get draft-ietf-http-feature-scenarios-01.txt".
A URL for the Internet-Draft is:
ftp://ds.internic.net/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-http-feature-scenarios-01.txt
 
Internet-Drafts directories are located at:
                                                
     o  Africa:  ftp.is.co.za                    
                                                
     o  Europe:  ftp.nordu.net            
                 ftp.nis.garr.it                 
                                                
     o  Pacific Rim: munnari.oz.au               
                                                
     o  US East Coast: ds.internic.net           
                                                
     o  US West Coast: ftp.isi.edu               
                                                
Internet-Drafts are also available by mail.
                                                
Send a message to:  mailserv@ds.internic.net. In the body type: 
     "FILE /internet-drafts/draft-ietf-http-feature-scenarios-01.txt".

NOTE: The mail server at ds.internic.net can return the document in
      MIME-encoded form by using the "mpack" utility.  To use this
      feature, insert the command "ENCODING mime" before the "FILE"
      command.  To decode the response(s), you will need "munpack" or
      a MIME-compliant mail reader.  Different MIME-compliant mail readers
      exhibit different behavior, especially when dealing with
      "multipart" MIME messages (i.e., documents which have been split
      up into multiple messages), so check your local documentation on
      how to manipulate these messages.



Below is the data which will enable a MIME compliant mail reader 
implementation to automatically retrieve the ASCII version
of the Internet-Draft.






Message/External-body attachment: stored




