docno="lists-038-4511426"
received="Mon Jan 19 18:03:35 1998"
isoreceived="19980119230335"
sent="Mon, 19 Jan 1998 14:56:27 -0800"
isosent="19980119225627"
name="Jim Whitehead"
email="ejw@ics.uci.edu"
subject="WG Last Call: Distributed Authoring Protocol"
id="01BD24EA.6C08B8A0.ejw@ics.uci.edu"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:"'WEBDAV WG'"<w3c-dist-auth@w3.org>


*** WORKING GROUP LAST CALL FOR COMMENTS ***

DISTRIBUTED AUTHORING PROTOCOL SPECIFICATION

This is the final call for comments from the working group on the 
Distributed Authoring Protocol Specification, 
draft-ietf-webdav-protocol-06.  This last call for comments period begins 
immediately, and ends February 11, 1998, at midnight, US Pacific time. 
 This allows just over three weeks for review of the specification.

At the end of the last call review period, a new draft will be issued. 
 Depending on the scope of changes introduced between the -06 and -07 
versions, there will either be an immediate call for rough consensus (very 
few changes), or a second last call review period (significant changes). 
 Once the document represents the rough consensus of the working group, I 
will submit this document to the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG) 
for their approval.  IESG review involves a (minimum) two week public last 
call for comments period.  This IESG-initiated last call period is in 
addition to the working group last call period.

This document is intended to be a "Proposed Standard".  Quoting from RFC 
2026, "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3":

   The entry-level maturity for the standards track is "Proposed
   Standard".  A specific action by the IESG is required to move a
   specification onto the standards track at the "Proposed Standard"
   level.

   A Proposed Standard specification is generally stable, has resolved
   known design choices, is believed to be well-understood, has received
   significant community review, and appears to enjoy enough community
   interest to be considered valuable.  However, further experience
   might result in a change or even retraction of the specification
   before it advances.

   Usually, neither implementation nor operational experience is
   required for the designation of a specification as a Proposed
   Standard.  However, such experience is highly desirable, and will
   usually represent a strong argument in favor of a Proposed Standard
   designation.

Many details on the procedures used to develop an IETF standard can be 
found in RFC 2026, available at:

ftp://ds.internic.net/rfc/rfc2026.txt

If there are any procedural questions or concerns, please do not hesitate 
to contact me, or raise an issue on the list.

Notes:

1) The current draft (-06) contains a Changes section, which details 
changes since the previous version of the draft.  This section will not be 
present in the next (-07) version of the draft, and is only present to 
inform readers familiar with the (-05) and previous versions of the draft.

2) Issues raised during the last call period will be resolved individually, 
rather than lumped together and dealt with as a whole.  This follows the 
issue-resolution convention being followed in the HTTP WG.

3) The current specification has several widows and orphans.  These will be 
resolved in the next version of the specification.

4) If you've been waiting for a "stable" version of the specification 
before performing a review, wait no longer.  This is it.  This is your 
final boarding call, the countdown is at t minus 23 days and counting, the 
runners are in their blocks and the starting gun is being raised, TIME IS 
RUNNING OUT.  Review the specification NOW.

- Jim Whitehead
Chair, IETF WEBDAV Working Group



