docno="lists-101-15115150"
received="Wed Mar 12 17:18:09 2003"
isoreceived="20030312221809"
sent="12 Mar 2003 17:18:07 -0500"
isosent="20030312221807"
name="Philippe Le Hegaret"
email="plh@w3.org"
subject="Minutes of the framework discussion"
id="1047507487.25592.73.camel@jfouffa.w3.org"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:www-dom-ts@w3.org



Participants:
 Bob Clary, Netscape
 Johnny Stenback, Netscape
 Ray Whitmer, AOL
 Dimitris Dimitriadis, invited expert
 Philippe Le H?garet, W3C

Agenda
 Framework license
 Current state of the framework
 Exception handling in the framework
 DOM Level 1 Core in the current test suite
 Task Force and Chair
 Schedule

---

Dimitris: Curt is not around?

Philippe: We discussed framework issues at the f2f meeting last week and
we felt that Bob was the right person to contact given he has done on it
recently.

---

Framework license

Philippe: JSUnit is not under the W3C Software license. Got feedback
that this may be a problem for compagnies in order for them to look at
it and fix it.

Bob: originally, Edward was using GPL. He is now using LGPL/Mozilla
Public license/GPL.  Edward is quite open on that.

Johnny: it may not satisfy those companies if it's under several licences.

Philippe: can talk to them again and see if they can be satisfied.

ACTION: Dimitris will follow up on the licence and if something can be
done to satisfy those companies (but they may have conflicting issues).

---

Framework

Philippe: Where are we? We have 2 versions: Bob and Edward
versions. Heard concerns during the technical plenary regarding the
JSUnit framework (browser sniffing, exceptions handling).

Bob: during last summer, modifications were made to JSUnit 1.3.2 in such
way that the DOM Test Suite wasn't working anymore. Until recently, it
wasn't fixed. The current CVS version from Edward has been fixed. My
version does have changes and contains other proposed changes as well,
including selection of content type and test implementation
attributes. Except for a bug, we are waiting for feedback from Apple and
Opera before releasing the next version of JSUnit. JSUnit 1.3.4 will be
identical to my current version. The current bug only affects Mozilla on
Apple and Opera as well. Currently, the DOM test suite does not work in
Opera. trying to get their feedback.

Philippe: can help for Opera.

Dimitris: can help for Apple.

Bob: we modified the test suite to remove dependencies on HTML
getElementById/innherHTML. Nothing browser specific. only relies on
ECMAScript and some features of DOM Level 0.

Philippe: what about exceptions? IE does not support the ECMAScript
exceptions.

Bob: IE does support exceptions but they return incorrect error codes.

Philippe: do we do browser sniffing to avoid those troubles in IE?

Bob: not sure... Don't remember if the exception mapping from last
spring is still in the test suite.

Philippe: do we do browser sniffing for the framework?

Johnny: it may need to do so for the framework itself. there is nothing
wring with that.

Bob: no user agent detection. only test for support of specific objects.

Philippe: as long as it doesn't change the result of the tests, it's
fine.

Bob: following feedback from DOM TS and other browsers, we are very
close to release a new version.  we need help from Opera and Apple. In
contact with Hakon to fix the framework for Opera. Contacted David Hyatt
from Apple as well. For Safari, they are moving rapidly.

ACTION: Philippe to contact Hakon regarding the test suite, cc Bob

---

Philippe: We currently have a DOM Level 1 Core Test Suite, but DOM Level
1 doesn't exist a Core module. It only references Core interfaces. DOM
Level 1 XML and DOM Level 1 HTML do use those Core interfaces though.

Johnny: seems a reorganization issue

Dimitris: should focus on DOM Level 2 instead.

-> Once the DOM Level 2 test suite is released, we may think about DOM
Level 1.

---

TF and Chair

Philippe: Following Dimitris's concerns, we discussed the idea of having
a kind of Task Force for the DOM Test Suite. It will provide an
organization of the work. However, neither Dimitris or myself do have
the cycles for that unfortunately. We need someone who can keep track on
what's going on, follow up on test submissions, provide a roadmap,
organize teleconferences, ...

Bob will try to get an answer by the end of the week.

(Philippe will be on the road for a week starting end of this week)



