docno="lists-061-8922058"
received="Thu Jun  8 17:01:08 2000"
isoreceived="20000608210108"
sent="Thu, 8 Jun 2000 16:51:44 -0400"
isosent="20000608205144"
name="karl.hebenstreit@gsa.gov"
email="karl.hebenstreit@gsa.gov"
subject="Re: Training page &ndash;&ndash; new draft, please comment"
id="OFC01FB865.5C683811-ON852568F8.007201D7@gsa.gov"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="Training page &ndash;&ndash; new draft, please comment"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-wai-eo@w3.org



This will be a great resource, and is quite timely.   As Judy and Chuck are
aware, my office is providing auditorium-style training to webmasters in
the federal government.   Our next classes won't be until June 27th, so it
might be possible for us to test some of these ideas on a large sample size
(our first four sessions had about 450 registrants -- haven't had time to
identify the number of actual attendees, and we have 14 more sessions
scheduled).    An additional resourcethat would be EXTREMELY useful would
be to have "one-page" guides (print on a single piece of paper) on specific
problem areas, such as PDF, Java, JavaScript, dynamic webpages.    I would
see this as an separate page, such as "Topic Guides",   "Topics", or
"Guides".


Planning

   Good framework for training development.  It's really a cyclical process
   where trainer perspectives can provide valuable feedback for determining
   needs and managing expectations

Learning Objectives:  What does the audience need?

   This should be part of any registration form/process.   I can try to
   incorporate this into our online registration process (retroactively get
   feedback from people who have attended one of our first four sessions).
   I know we need to address the NOSCRIPT part of our registration form,
   but I'd welcome feedback on any outstanding accessibility issues:
        http://w3.gsa.gov/web/m/cita.nsf/CourseRegistration2?OpenForm

Learning Objectives:  What are the audience's learning objectives?

   This should be part of any registration and evaluation or feedback
   form/process.   I can try to incorporate this into our online
   registration process (retroactively get feedback from people who have
   attended one of our first four sessions).   Registration forms are much
   easier to deal with online than evaluation forms, unless participants
   each have access to a computer with web access.

Resources and Approaches

   Great to have resources and approaches linked to specific learning
   objectives.    Encouraging trainers to submit perspective documents
   could lead to additional learning objectives, and help identify more
   resources for each objective.   Subsequent trainers would have more
   "raw" material readily available to use in their course, although our
   experience so far raises substantial issues with the need for printed
   and alternate format materials (we distributed about 300 copies of a
   28-page, double-sided handout).    What is the best method for providing
   alternate formats for a slide show presentation?

Arranging Resources for Trainings

   Online or offline?    Working offline requires extensive copying of all
   files (all graphics as well as HTML), although only copying the HTML
   file provides a clear indication of whether or not people are using ALT
   text since all images are "broken links".   Online is particular
   effective if you include a live demonstration of real webpages by one or
   more people with disabilities.  Having one or more representatives of
   the disability community presenting also provides better discussions,
   since they can relate actual experiences.


Karl Hebenstreit, Jr.
US General Services Administration
Office of Governmentwide Policy
Center for Information Technology Accommodation
http://www.itpolicy.gsa.gov/cita
Federal IT Accessibility Initiative
http://www.section508.gov



