docno="lists-004-4650173"
received="Mon Sep 15 03:41:24 2003"
isoreceived="20030915074124"
sent="Fri, 12 Sep 2003 20:02:03 -0700"
isosent="20030913030203"
name="Themba Funzani"
email="dezulu@uboot.com"
subject="HELLO"
id="20030915074048.B3661A0BBB@frink.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



From: Engr. Themba Funzani 
PRETORIA
SOUTH AFRICA
Private Email: themba@tiscali.co.uk

FOR YOUR KIND ATTENTION

I am Themba Funzani, a Native of Cape Town in South Africa and I am an Engineer with the South Africa Department of Mining & Energy. First and foremost, I apologised using this medium to reach you for a transaction/business of this magnitude, but this is due to confidentiality and prompt access reposed on this medium. Be informed that a member of the South Africa Export Promotion Council (SEPC) who was at the Government delegation to your country during a trade exhibition gave your enviable credentials/particulars to me. I have decided to seek a confidential co-operation with you in the execution of the deal described hereunder for the benefit of all parties and hope you will keep it as a top secret because of the nature of this transaction.

Within the Department of Mining & Energy where I work as a director and with the cooperation of four other top officials, we have in our possession as overdue payment bills totalling Thirthy Six Million, Four Hundred Thousand United States Dollars (US$36,400,000.00) which we want to transfer abroad with the assistance and cooperation of a foreign company/individual to receive the said fund on our behalf into a reliable company/individual account depending on your convenience. More so, we are handicapped in the circumstances, as the South Africa Civil Service Code of Conduct does not allow us to operate offshore account hence your importance in the whole transaction. This amount (US$36.4M) represents the balance of the total contract value executed on behalf of my Department by a foreign contracting firm, which we the officials over-invoiced deliberately. Though the actual contract cost have been paid to the original contractor, leaving th
 e balance in the tune of the said amount which we have authority to validate forward approvals of outstanding claims to the Reserve Bank of South Africa (RSBA) for onward transfer of funds to any foreign bank account you will provide by filing in an application through the Finance Ministry here in South Africa for the transfer of rights and privileges of the former contractor to you. 

I have the authority of my partners involved to propose that should you be willing to assist us in the transaction, your share of the sum will be 25% of the US$36.4 million, 70% for us and 5% for taxation and miscellaneous expenses. The business itself is 100% safe, on your part provided you treat it with utmost secrecy and confidentiality. Also your area of specialisation is not a hindrance to the successful execution of this transaction. I have reposed my confidence in you and hope that you will not disappoint me. Endeavour to contact me immediately through my secured email address : tfunzani@executivemail.co.za  or the email address above,whether or not you are interested in this deal. If you are not, it will enable me contact other Foreign partner with recommendation to carry out this deal.

I want to assure you that myself and my partners are in a position to make the payment of this claim possible provided you can give us a very strong assurance and guarantee that our share will be secured and Please remember to treat this matter as very confidential matter; because we will not comprehend with any form of exposure as we are still in active Government Service and remember once again that time is of the essence in this business.I wait in anticipation of your fullest co-operation.

Yours faithfully,
Themba .A. Funzani(Engr.)



