docno="lists-005-3897898"
received="Sat Mar 27 10:29:45 2004"
isoreceived="20040327152945"
sent="Sat, 27 Mar 2004 16:29:13 +0100"
isosent="20040327152913"
name="luisaesrada@yahoo.com"
email="luisaesrada@yahoo.com"
subject="PLEASE READ CAREFULLY."
id="20040327152911.BCC00A0997@frink.w3.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



Greetings and compliments.

I wish to send this mail to you through this medium. I have been searching for a good and reliable person until you were introduced to me and hope you will not dissappoint me in this transaction.

I am Mrs Luisa Estrada, the wife of Joseph Estrada, former president of Phillipines in Asia. My husband was recently impeached in office by an opposition group backed up by an uprising of mass Demonstrators
and Senate Traitors. 

Most of them benefitted from my husband's generousity when he was in office. But they just turned around to be the ones to impeach him. I have tried every possible means to get him out of Detention without success. The Despotic forces in power appear bent in deriding him, rubbishing his achievements while freezing all his known Bank accounts. You will agree
with me that this is political and the only way they can remain in office while perpetuating Tyranny.

During my husband's regime as President of Phillipines, he stashed out the sum of Forty Million United States Dollars from various contract projects. He deposited this money with security companies Twenty-three milliom in Bangkok Thailand and Seventeen Million in Valencia,The
Spain in my name (Mrs Luisa Estrada). The money has been with the security companies since then and the government does  not know about it.

Presently, life has not been easy for my children and I, my travel documents have been seized by the government. 
 
Now, I want to start a new life with the money my husband deposited with the security company. I also want to invest the money outside Philippines.  Please, I want you to assist me get the money released from the security company immediately as my beneficiary,there is no risk at all about this.

I have discussed with the security company manager about this arrangement and he assured me that they will be willing to release the money to my representative. I would give you the secret pin code number of the money, the telephone and fax numbers of the company. I will give you 30% of the total amount if you assist me to get the
money released.

If you are willing to assist me, Kindly furnish me with you full names, contact phone and fax numbers, to enable me give the information to the company.
 
Meanwhile, I would be communicating with you by email because my telephone lines are bugged at the moment. The email is my only means of communication. 

I hope to travel out of Philippines as soon as the money is released to you. I would want us to be in partnership in any good business you may suggest in your country. 

Please handle this transaction with maturity and
sincerity.  

Best Regards,

Mrs Luisa Estrada.
Email: luisaexestrada@netscape.net



