docno="lists-010-4944267"
received="Thu Jul 11 11:11:08 1996"
isoreceived="19960711151108"
sent="Thu, 11 Jul 1996 07:06:55 0700"
isosent="19960711140655"
name="et"
email="et@ipro.com"
subject="RE: Demographics"
id="01BB6F18.063D4EC0@pan.ipro.com"
charset="iso-88591"
inreplyto="Demographics"
expires="1"


To: Paul Leach<paulle@microsoft.com>,"http-wg%cuckoo.hpl.hp.com@hplb.hpl.hp.com"<http-wg%cuckoo.hpl.hp.com@hplb.hpl.hp.com>,"'hallam@Etna.ai.mit.edu'"<hallam@etna.ai.mit.edu>

I have been following this thread for the past couple of days and being from a company that makes its living from measurement and  analysis on access information of most of the major sites on the internet I can assure you that the refer field is of the highest importance to advertisers and sites.  I agree with phil that we live in a capitalistic society where advertising pays for a great many things or subsidizes them.  For example magazines and newspapers.  I do agree that privacy is a concern on the Internet but if we as technologist do not provide a solution to content providers that will provide this information then sites and advertisers will just figure a way to hack around it.  You see this already with sites like yahoo that redirect back to there sites when people leave.  This is a performance hit that yahoo is willing to accept and apparently so is the consumer.
I guess I am a little confused as to why people are concerned with the privacy issue.  Please don't shoot me I just maybe na?ve here.  If I come from site A to site B and use the refer as a way for site B to know that I came to it how does site B know how I am.  As far as a know there is no personal information stored in the request from site A to site B or is this wrong?  My question is one of are we being to paranoid about the information?  I personal think that we could actually provide a mechanizes to give more information now and still create no privacy issues.  -------------------------------------Gene TrentDir. of TechnologyI/PRO785 Market St. 13th floorSan Francisco, Ca 94103PH: 415-976-8627FAX 415-975-8617Pager 415-208-4382URL www.ipro.com----------From:  hallam@Etna.ai.mit.edu[SMTP:hallam@Etna.ai.mit.edu]Sent:  Wednesday, July 10, 1996 12:57 PMTo:  Paul Leach; http-wg%cuckoo.hpl.hp.com@hplb.hpl.hp.comCc:  hallam@Etna.ai.mit.eduSubject:  Re: Demographics  >It is alleged that some advertisers want to pay content providers, not>by the "hit", but by the "nibble" -- the number of people who actually>click on the ad to get more info.[...]>What I'm looking for are comments on the privacy concerns with such an>approach.I had a series of discussions with the folks like clickshare who are trying to make money from selling demographic data.My first approach was to push the referer field - tracking ads was one of the original applications I had in mind for it. Its a pity thatthe concern for privacy that has reduced the impact of the refererfield was not present when cookies were thrown in. One of the problemswith concerns about security, privacy etc is that the criteria beingapplied tend to shift depending on who proposed what. I think that any discussion about privacy needs to take account ofthe following realities :-1) Content costs money to provide. In a capitalist system there mustbe mechanisms that cover these costs or content won't exist.2) Vanity publishing and technology research will not continue to pay for the New York Times etc. indefinitely. A lot of contentproviders have been prepared to give away content for free justto learn the potential of the technology. If we cannot providemechanisms to pay for content then sites will soon start disappearing.3) The current protocols admit any number of ad-hoc hacks that createlinkage. Most of these mean that documents has to becustomized for each reader which in turn means that caching willnot work. This model enforces a communication with the host server.4) Payment for content on a subscription model limits the audience fora product, it means that the rich inter-linked nature of theWeb is lessened. The marginal cost of following a link becomesvery substantial. If charging mechanisms are restricted tosubscriptions alone the objective of disintermediation, removingthe power that Murdoch, Maxwell and their cronies have overthe movement of information will be lost. We will only be ableto buy content that comes from large publishing corporations.There will not be the leavening of small independent self-published works.a, in thiscase the number of people in a household wich had internet access andnot the number of people who had used the internet. Why measure itthis way? Well consider a case where you want to buy a new car, youknow that your son can get details of prices via the internet, youask your son to do the search. In other words the potential audienceoutreach is not necessarily the direct readership. There are similarfudge factors for other media (pass on readership of periodicals).One important point is that the advertisers are not really interestedin "readers", they are interested in an index that corresponds with themeasures they already use. Phill  Phill



