docno="lists-062-9981631"
received="Thu May  1 08:58:28 2003"
isoreceived="20030501125828"
sent="Thu, 1 May 2003 09:01:05 -0400"
isosent="20030501130105"
name="Sailesh Panchang"
email="sailesh.panchang@deque.com"
subject="FYI: Specs on Accessibility of Online Learning"
id="003a01c30fe1$ba1459e0$6c01a8c0@deque.local"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:<w3c-wai-eo@w3.org>

Just thought some of you might would like to know...
IMS Releases Draft Specification to Improve Accessibility
of Online Learning
Spec developers seek public commentary

Boston, MA - April 30, 2003 - IMS Global Learning Consortium (IMS) and WGBH's National Center for Accessible Media (NCAM) today announce the release of
a Public Draft of Accessibility for Learner Information Package (LIP) - a specification they have collaboratively developed through a grant awarded by
the U.S. Department of Education's "Learning Anytime Anywhere Partnerships" (LAAP) program.

The specification is a model for describing and recording user preferences for content, display, and control of interfaces for online learning, useful for
a wide range of users including those with disabilities. The goal of the collaborative effort is to create a framework, adoptable by small and large eLearning
developers and content providers around the world, which serves all users by making learning materials easy to access from any and all "points of entry"
(school, home, office, library or while using mobile devices) after an initial, one-time recording of preferences by the user.

Depending on the user's choices, a learning system built according to the Accessibility for LIP specification will allow users with disabilities as well
as users with situational challenges, such as a noisy environment, use of older hardware, or low bandwidth, to customize and personalize settings if the
standard settings of a learning system are not ideal for them. Some of the preferences that might be chosen by learners include:

- Display: Learners can indicate that they would prefer materials in a format that can be read by a screen reader, that any audio alerts should have a visual
notification option, or that they prefer to have an overview of the content before diving into the details.

- Control: Learners can save settings for voice recognition, onscreen keyboards, or other input devices.

- Content: Learners can choose to "read" a video (through captioning) rather than or in addition to hearing it, or indicate unacceptable color combinations
(such as red/green) that may be indistinguishable for them.

In addition, the new specification proposes a simple model for recording authorization of accommodations for testing or assessment.

"Accessibility for LIP will permit learning systems to give each learner the educational material they need, in a style that will be effective for them,"
said Andrew J. Imparato, President and CEO of the American Association of People with Disabilities (AAPD). "I am excited to see this work released and
look forward to using tools that are built with it."

The Public Draft of the IMS Accessibility for LIP is a set of four documents - both technical and narrative in nature. The full document set: Accessibility
for LIP Information Model, Accessibility for LIP Best Practices and Implementation Guide, Accessibility for LIP XML Schema Binding, and Accessibility for
LIP Use Cases, is available for public review and comment.  Those interested in providing feedback or suggestions may comment on any or all of the documents.

Public comment on the documents will be accepted for six weeks - from Monday, April 28 through Monday, June 9, 2003. Accessibility for LIP is available
free of charge from
http://www.imsglobal.org/accessibility/
in a fully accessible HTML version and in a downloadable PDF version. Following the public comment phase, the project team will incorporate revisions and
submit the document set to the IMS Technical Advisory Board for a vote on a final version, which will also be made available at no charge from the IMS
web site.

The Accessibility for LIP work was supported by funding from LAAP and the efforts and financial support of the following organizations: Department of Education,
Science and Training (AUS), Educational Testing Service (USA), IBM (USA), Industry Canada (CAN), Open University (UK), Sheffield Hallam University (UK),
Thomson NETg (USA), UK eUniversities Worldwide (UK), and the University of Toronto Adaptive Technology Resource Centre (CAN).

About IMS
The IMS Global Learning Consortium develops open technical specifications to support distributed learning. All specifications developed by IMS are available
to the public without charge through the IMS website. IMS is a non-profit organization supported by a worldwide consortium that includes 50 Contributing
Members and 60 Developers Network subscribers. The IMS in Europe foundation supports activities among European members. Information about IMS specifications,
on-going activities, and membership is available at the IMS website
http://www.imsglobal.org/.

About NCAM
NCAM and its fellow access departments at WGBH (The Caption Center and Descriptive Video Service?) make up the Media Access Group at WGBH. WGBH, Boston's
public broadcaster, pioneered captioning and video description on television, the Web and in movie theaters. NCAM is a founding member of the Web Accessibility
Initiative (WAI) of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). NCAM works with standards bodies, industry, consumer organizations and educators to develop and
implement non-proprietary technical standards for multimedia, advanced television, and convergent media that ease implementation, foster growth and lay
common groundwork for equal access to new technologies. Visit
http://access.wgbh.org
for more information about NCAM.

For more information contact:

Caroline Oldershaw,  IMS Global Learning Consortium
608-233-3277 voice
coldershaw@imsglobal.org
http://www.imsglobal.org

Mary Watkins, Media Access Group at WGBH
617-300-3700 voice
617-300-2459 TTY
mary_watkins@wgbh.org
http://access.wgbh.org
Sailesh Panchang
Senior Accessibility Engineer
Deque Systems Inc
11752, Valley Ridge Circle, Fairfax, VA 22033
Tel: 703-218-8018
Fax: 703-218-5047
E-mail: sailesh.panchang@deque.com
* Look up <http://www.deque.com> *



