docno="lists-004-5675072"
received="Fri Sep 19 04:19:11 2003"
isoreceived="20030919081911"
sent="Fri, 19 Sep 2003 01:18:24 -0700"
isosent="20030919081824"
name="drgolu22@tiscali.co.uk"
email="drgolu22@tiscali.co.uk"
subject="FROM:  Dr  GBENGA"
id="3F69DE0900001BFD@mk-cpfrontend-1.mail.uk.tiscali.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:drgolu22@tiscali.co.uk


Dr.GBENGA OLU.
FEDERAL SECRETARIAT,
LAGOS, NIGERIA

             URGENT & CONFIDENTIAL

Best wishes of good health and success in your pursuits particularly through
my proposal as contained in this letter.Before going into details of my
proposal to you, I must first solicit you to treat it with utmost confidentiality,
as this is required for its success.

My colleagues and I are senior officials of the Federal Government of Nigeria?s
Contracts Review Panel who are interested in diverting some funds that are
presently floating in the accounts of the Central Bank of Nigeria. In order
to commence this transaction, we solicit for your assistance to enable us
transfer into your account the said floating funds. We are determined to
conclude the transfer before the end of this financial quarter.

The source of the funds are as follows: During the last military regime,government
officials awarded contracts that were grossly over-invoiced to Contractors.
The present civilian government set up the Contract Review Panel, which
has the mandate to use the instruments of payments made available to it
by the decree setting up the panel, to review these contracts and if necessary
pay those who are being owed outstanding amounts.My colleagues and I have
identified quite a huge sum of these funds which
are presently floating in the Central Bank of Nigeria ready for disbursement
and would like to divert some of it for our own purposes. However, by virtue
of our positions as civil servants and members of this panel, we cannot
acquire these funds in our names or in the names of companies that are based
in Nigeria. I have therefore been mandated, as a matter of trust by my colleagues
in the panel, to look for a reliable overseas partner into whose account
we can transfer the sum of U.S.$16,500,000.00(sixteen Million, five hundred
 thousand U.S. Dollars). That is why I am writing you this mail.

We wish to invest our share of the proceeds of this project in foreign stock
markets and other business till we are ready and able to have access to
them. We intend to effect the transfer within a few days from the date of
receipt of the following information:Your name, company?s name, address
and telephone and fax numbers. The above information will enable us write
letters of claim and job description respectively.This way, we will use
your company?s name to apply for the payment and backdate
the award of the contract to your company.

We are looking forward to doing this transaction with you and we solicit
for your utmost confidentiality in this transaction. Please acknowledge
the receipt of this letter and, I will bring you into a more detailed pictureof
this transaction when I hear from you.

Best regards,

Dr.Gbenga Olu.
 
 NOTE: YOU SHOULD ALSO LET ME KNOW WHAT PERCENTAGE YOU INTEND TO GET FOR
RENDERING US THIS ASSISTANCE, SO THAT I CAN TELL OTHER MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE



