docno="lists-082-9412684"
received="Wed Jun  2 15:04:42 1999"
isoreceived="19990602190442"
sent="Wed, 02 Jun 1999 14:10:16 -0500"
isosent="19990602191016"
name="Jon Gunderson"
email="jongund@staff.uiuc.edu"
subject="MINUTES: W3C WAI User Agent 2 June 1999"
id="199906021904.OAA22828@staff2.cso.uiuc.edu"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org

Minutes can also be found at:
http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/1999/06/wai-ua-telecon-19990602.html

Attendance
Chair: Jon Gunderson (JG)
Scribe:Jim Allan (JA)
Harvey Bingham (HB)
Charles McCathieNevile (CMN)
Mark Novak (MN)
Denis Anson (DA, joined at 12:45 point)

Regrets
Ian Jacobs
Rich Schwerdtfeger

Completed Action Items
JA: Check guidelines for information about tooltip control.
JG: Techniques for 7.2.1.
JG: Contact Peter Korn about techniques for java acessible design
JG: Contact Rob Relyea about techniques for microsoft acessible design.
MK: Propose navigation checkpoint to time-sensitive parts of a document.
Review this issue in terms of stop/start/rewind/fast-forward checkpoints.
IJ: Posting description of frame work to think about checkpoints and
techniques
Continued Action Items
Editors: Incorporate resolutions into next draft of document.
IJ: Write DJW about requirements T&S/WAI. Wrote thrice, no reply. Will
follow up.
IJ: Editorial action items
CMN: Write techniques for 7.2.2 and 7.2.6 CMN deferred until publication of
Note by Rich and Mark.
JG: Techniques for 7.2.2.
New Action Items
MN: Post references to mechanisms that can be used for applications to
exchange information for various operating systems: UNIX/X-Windows,
Microsoft windows, Apple Macintosh and Java
IJ: Implement proposal to simplify the guidelines, separate techniques from
checkpoints, make checkpoints more global, move technichy checkpoints to
technique document.
IJ: Include specific navigation checkpoints for the following elements:
forms, form controls, tables, in next draft
Include checkpoint: Scripting events should be part of navigating to active
content checkpoint
Include checkpoint: Allow user to configure elements that are part of
active contents
Include checkpoint: Allow user to simulate event activator that an element
could respond to
Include checkpoint: Orient user to events an element can respond to
Include checkpoint: Allow user to navigate to elements that can respond to
events
Include checkpoint:: Add checkpoint: turn on/off access key at priority 2
level

Minutes
Opening statement by JG lack of participation by developers, Jaws folks,
Webspeak folks, Ibm folks, MS folks perhaps have a special invitational
telecon, if you have access to these people please encourage them to
attend, what is happening at UA
CMN: a problem here also, starting to participate regularly, Softquad
reviews regularly
JG: send ideas to Jon,
Review of Open Action Items
Editors: Incorporate resolutions into next draft of document.
IJ: Write DJW about requirements T&S/WAI. Wrote thrice, no reply. Will
follow up.
IJ: Editorial action items
CMN: Write techniques for 7.2.2 and 7.2.6 CMN deferred until publication of
Note by Rich and Mark.
JG: Techniques for 7.2.1.
JG: Techniques for 7.2.2.
JG: Contact Rob Relyea about techniques for Microsoft accessible design.
JG: Contact Peter Korn for techniques related to Java accessible design.
JA: Check guidelines for information about tooltip control.
MK: Propose navigation checkpoint to time-sensitive parts of a document.
Review this issue in terms of stop/start/rewind/fast-forward checkpoints.
IJ: Posting description of frame work to think about checkpoints and
techniques
Discussion
Ian's proposal for reformatting the guidelines and implications for
checkpoints
Scripting events (see last weeks minutes)
JG: new draft on the way, sent Techniques for 7.2.1 to the list. who knows
about x-window operating system and how it exchanges information between
applications want to point to an existing resources for
ACTION: MN resources for x-windows exchanging information between
applications and references for apple scripting
MN: COM covers this in windows
JG: I will find pointers for windows maybe ask Peter Korn or Rich about
Java resources
MN: apple uses Apple Scripting
JA: tooltips, spawning windows,
editor: remove tooltip item from todo list
JG: Maria - Propose navigation checkpoint to time-sensitive parts of a
document. Review this issue in terms of stop/start/rewind/fast-forward
checkpoints. (may 24 posting on list "time dependent items") ask lots of
questions.
editor: remove MK action item from list
New business
JG: Ian reviewing guidelines, especially about navigation guidelines
currently have specific technique type recommendations as checkpoints these
are useful if we are comparing user agents for accessibility talked about
using GL for conformance Ian proposing to simplify, put technichy
checkpoints in techniques, and make GL checkpoints more global JG responded
with general suggestions-sequential access, searching, etc. would allow
developers to create new techniques restructure doc checkpoint doc and
technique doc, with links between
CMN: like it
JA: like it
JG: allows innovation,
HB: approves
ACTION: IJ implement GL proposal, separate techniques from checkpoints,
make checkpoints more global, move technichy checkpoints to technique
document,
JG: CP related to forms, links, etc, how global do we get, keep specifics
for forms, tables, etc. useful guidelines to include nav to links, forms,
tables,
CMN: idea in head, may be different from Ian, need basic principals--get to
various elements, specific requirements for elements and get a checkpoint
because they are critical, important, or beneficial...i.e. anchors, forms
JG: need some separate, forms, anchors is it useful to have these
specifics, gave example about a poor page, need specific command like "move
to next form control"
CMN: need a new structure to document
ACTION: Ian to include specific navigation checkpoints for the following
elements: forms, form controls, tables, in next draft
Scripting Events
JG: scripting events are considered active content, should it be part of
navigating to active content, with addition of user configurability--what
do I want to nav to? user may have to nav to every element on a page. with
separate commands for links and forms
HB: possibility to put script on body, will you need to check every element
JG: with event bubbling, then you would eventually arrive at top level,
specific event handler, user doesn't know
HB: these are controlled by event occurrence, rather than moving focus to it
JG: UA could do this and provide keyboard access, mouseover may not be
important. alternatives were
1) separate checkpoint for nav scripting events - are they different from
any other control?, thinks there are not differences functionally. longdesc
needs a separate command.
CMN: scripting are same as any other control
JA: agree ms pull down example
MN: devils advocate- ms site is good example of poor scripting, need script
to use on focus, need to know what the event is going to be before you
activate it.
JG: explicit event handler, should nav to it. don't want to make people go
to events that don't do anything,
CMN: but if they can't go to the event
HB: feed back from event is usually visual
JG: ideally, use GL for device independence. won't need
Dennis Anson joins
JG: events are controls and handled as such, CP nav to active content,
events should be part of this, other CP, nav to only elements with
scripting events allow user to configure elements to navigate to simulate
events, nav to element and expect something to happen but nothing happens
DA: chuck opperman said it was difficult to determine what event was caused
by what
CMN: have to get to all events and turn things off
JG: with event handler that bases events on occurrence of other event,
bubbles up to main controller, if active web content, follow content
guidelines, and application must be accessible not much concern about problem.
ACTION:Include checkpoint: includes scripting events, responds to event,
should be part of active content
ACTION:Include checkpoint: Allow user to simulate event activator
ACTION:Include checkpoint: Allow user to configure which elements are
considered active content by the user
ACTION:Include checkpoint: Orient user to operation of event, to what
events the element responds
JG: do we need separate CP - allow user to navigate to elements with
scripting events
HB: looking at ms page, (visac?),
JG: skinner box, click anywhere and something will happen...
DA: goal to make it possible to make all pages accessible
JG: do we need separate CP - allow user to nav to elements with scripting
events
DA: to be consistent with other CP we should and make it p2
HB: what is scope of scripts in head
JG: code is in the head, elements do actual activation
DA: are some onload scripts, that run when page loads
JG: can scripts run in the head
CMN: can execute in theory, proprietary, can run anywhere,
JG: no user action to run script, user can't do anything except turn off
scripts
ACTION: Include a checkpoint to provide navigation to only the elements
that can potentially respond to scripts
CP allow user to nav to elements with scripting events
CP allow user to simulate event activator
CP orient user to operation of event, to what events the element responds
JG: Ian's goal is to have new draft by Friday, not sure if possible.
Accesskey feature
JG: separate checkpoint, should be part of active content, consensus on
line no need for specific cp.
JA: explain how IE works with accesskey
MN: problems with sticky key, changes os functioning for keyboard
shortcuts, need a CP to turn off accesskey
ACTION: Add checkpoint: turn on/off access key at p2
MN: big usability problem with windows alt key
DA: cognitive problem for users using alternate keyboard access, sticky keys,
HB: issue raised - operability of more than one AT active at a time,
accesskey could be a problem,
JG: platform specific implementation issue, point to resources on how to
make products more accessible.
HB: send draft to developers after review and invite to attend meeting
JG: silence does not mean agreement, want developer buy in.


Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820

Voice: 217-244-5870
Fax: 217-333-0248
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
http://www.als.uiuc.edu/InfoTechAccess



