docno="lists-004-4305180"
received="Fri Sep 12 15:35:47 2003"
isoreceived="20030912193547"
sent="Fri, 12 Sep 2003 20:39:32 -0700"
isosent="20030913033932"
name="DR  S  USMAN"
email="usman5559@indiatimes.com"
subject="[ietf-charsets] &lt;none&gt;"
id="20030912193541.D43AF131D0@dr-nick.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org


FROM:DR.S.USMAN

{DEPUTY GOVERNOR  FINANCE  SECTOR  SURVELLANCE}{C. B. N}

Dear Sir,


First, i must solicit your confidence in this transaction.This is by virtue of its nature as being utterly CONFIDENTIAL AND TOP SECRET. however after series of petition was recieved by this present regime from foreign contractors and reports from the world Bank and the International Monetry Fund (I.M.F)as  the inability of the Central Bank of Nigeria to fulfill their obligation for the payment to its foreign creditors, Our Head of State (the president) in conjuntion with the council of ministers,has mandated us to carry out a careful and comprehensive review of all overdue payments to foreign contractors and to effect payments immediately,so as to sanitize the image of our great country caused by the embarrasment. 
In view of the above,the country has found it very necessary to review some contract files and application submitted to the Central Bank of Nigeria for payment. After going through some contracts files and with all application further carefully investigated.I found out  to my greatest surprise that some of them are not the actual Beneficiary of the funds they were about to claim.They were acting in collaboration with some highly placed connected government officials here in Nigeria to claim these money. And I am sure,and in no doubt that this is one of the reason  why the funds has not been transfered into their accounts. Really,this fund is still existing in our government annual report payment schedules on foreign debt as unclaimed and in their favour as the sole beneficiary.But it is really unfortunate that their representative here in Nigeria did not complete the transaction because they dont have the experience and so they abandon them.
My main purpose of contacting you is for you to help us to receive this money overseas,All we need from you is for you to stand as a frontier to claim the said fund   we will pouch the money diplomatically to you through a courier company, we have being able to secure $30 .5 million.Every modalities have been put in place to actualise this fund without any hitch,
We have agreed that, the funds will be shared thus, after it has been transferred into your account. 
1. 25% of the money will go to you for acting as the beneficiary of the fund. 
2. 10% will be set aside for reimbursement to both parties for any incidental expenses that may be incurred in the course of the transfer. 
3. 65% to us the originators of the transaction
 NOTE: Let honesty,confidentiality and trust be our watchword throughout this deal and your prompt reply will be highly appreciated thank you for your anticipated co-operation while I look forward to a matually benefitting business relation with you. Please Reach me on my Email Address above,  Treat as strictly confidential for obvious reasons you know I am still in service. 

Yours faithfully 
Dr. S. Usman. 

D .G.



