docno="lists-046-15132767"
received="Tue Nov 12 10:11:08 2002"
isoreceived="20021112151108"
sent="Tue, 12 Nov 2002 10:11:01 -0500"
isosent="20021112151101"
name="Janet Daly"
email="janet@w3.org"
subject="News Release, Testimonials: W3C Issues XForms 1.0 as a W3C Candidate  Recommendation"
id="3DD11A05.6020905@w3.org"
charset="windows-1252"
expires="-1"


To: w3c-news<w3c-news@w3.org>


The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) announces the release of the XForms
1.0 Candidate Recommendation, the foundation for next-generation
Web-based forms, by combining the ability to separate purpose,
presentation, and results with the Extensible Markup Language (XML).
For more information, please contact Janet Daly, Head of Communications,
at +1 617 253 5884.

Web Resources

   Press release
in English: 
http://www.w3.org/2002/11/xforms-pressrelease.html.en
in French:
http://www.w3.org/2002/11/xforms-pressrelease.html.fr
in Japanese:
http://www.w3.org/2002/11/xforms-pressrelease.html.ja


   Testimonials from Blast Radius, Cardiff Software, E-XMLMedia,
Handwise, Helsinki University of Technology, IBM,
Mozquito Technologies/SAP, Novell, PureEdge Solutions,
Xerox and x-port.net Ltd:
http://www.w3.org/2002/11/xforms-cr-testimonial

XForms Homepage:
http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/Forms/

XForms 1.0 Candidate Recommendation
http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/CR-xforms-20021112


World Wide Web Consortium Publishes XForms 1.0 as a W3C Candidate
Recommendation
W3C's Next-generation Forms Technology Ready for Implementors

Contact Americas, Australia --
Janet Daly, <janet@w3.org>, +1.617.253.5884 or +1.617.253.2613
Contact Europe --
Marie-Claire Forgue, <mcf@w3.org>, +33.492.38.75.94
Contact Asia --
Saeko Takeuchi <saeko@w3.org>, +81.466.49.1170


http://www.w3.org/ -- 12 November 2002 -- The World Wide Web Consortium
(W3C) announces the release of the XForms 1.0 Candidate Recommendation.
XForms 1.0 is the foundation for next-generation Web-based forms, by
combining the ability to separate purpose, presentation, and results
with the Extensible Markup Language (XML).

Advancement of this document to Candidate Recommendation is a statement
that the specification is stable. The W3C XForms Working Group invites
the Web development community at large to implement the specification
and demonstrate interoperability.

After Nearly 10 Years, It's Time to Upgrade Forms on the Web

When HTML Forms were introduced to the Web in 1993, they provided a
means to gather information and perform transactions. The structure of
forms served the needs of many users at that time, as well as the
devices used to access the Web.

Now, nearly 10 years later, the original HTML Form design is showing its
limitations. Users now wish to access the Web through cell phones,
handheld devices, and assistive technologies such as screen readers.
Forms Authors are looking to both minimize scripting and maximize reuse
of form components, as well as cleanly separate the purpose,
presentation and results of a form. And of course, companies which have
made the move to XML are looking for ways to bring forms along with the
rest of the enterprise.

"W3C's XForms allow authors to use their choice of markup language -
XHTML, SVG, XML - with minimal scripting and maximum usability,"
explained Steven Pemberton, co-chair of the W3C XForms Working Group.
"The XForms Working Group has provided a model that makes it easy for
implementers to develop and reuse form components, delivering
functionality to users and devices previously not possible."
XForms Cleanly Separates Purpose, Presentation, and Results

In contrast to HTML Forms, with functional and presentation markup
intertwined, XForms lets forms authors distinguish the descriptions of
the purpose of the form; the presentation of the form, and how the
results (the instance data) are written in XML.

By splitting traditional HTML forms into three parts?XForms model,
instance data, and the XForms user interface?it cleanly separates
presentation from content. This separation brings new advantages:

      * Reuse: XForms modules can be reused independent of the
      information they collect
      * Device Independence: as the User Interface controls are
      abstract - that is, their generic features are the only
      thing indicated - they can easily be re-presented on
      different devices with different capabilities
      * Accessibility: separation of presentation from content
      leaves information more readily available for users of
      assistive technologies; in addition, the User interface
      controls encapsulate all relevant metadata such as labels,
      thereby enhancing accessibility of the application when
      using different modalities.

Practically speaking, XForms technologies make it possible to use forms
from a PDA, a cell phone, screen reader or conventional desktop machine
- without loss of functionality for the end user.

XForms delivers the power of XML to online forms

XML is at the core of the XForms model, and delivers key advantages to
the XForms technology:

      * Data received from an XForm is already strongly typed,
      well-formed, easy to validate, and process - in other words,
      it's XML. This also speeds up form filling since it reduces
      the need for round trips to the server for validation.
      * XML Schemas may be reused and updated by XForms, which allows
      one form to remain useful and functional even if there are
      changes in the Schema
      * Using XML 1.0 for the description of results - called 'instance
      data' - ensures that the submitted data may be easily
      internationalized.

Moreover, XForms, while initially designed to be integrated into XHTML,
may be adopted by any suitable markup language, such as Scalable Vector
Graphics (SVG). By defining XML-based declarative event handlers that
cover common use cases, the majority of XForms documents can be
statically analyzed, reducing the need for imperative scripts for event
handlers.

XForms Working Group Includes Industry Leaders, Seeks Implementations

In the competitive field of forms technology, it's almost unheard of to
have so many leading participants working together on the development of
a standardized technology to be used by all. The W3C XForms Working
Group serves as the place where these technology and industry leaders
meet to produce results that have immediate use on the Web today. The
XForms Working Group includes: Adobe; AOL/Netscape; Cardiff; Computer
Associates; CWI; Electricit? de France R&D; Helsinki University of
Technology; IBM; Novell; NTT DoCoMo, Inc.; Openwave; Oracle; PureEdge
Solutions; SAP/Mozquito Technologies; Sony/Ericsson; and Xerox. Many
companies have announced support for XForms in current and future software.

The XForms Working Group encourages developers to work with the new
specification, and to send feedback about implementations to the XForms
Working Group mailing list.

Testimonials for W3C's XForms 1.0 Candidate Recommendation
These testimonials are in support of the W3C XForms 1.0 Candidate 
Recommendation Press Release.

In English: Blast Radius | Cardiff Software | E-XMLMedia | Handwise | 
Helsinki University of Technology | IBM | Mozquito Technologies/SAP | 
Novell | PureEdge Solutions | Xerox | x-port.net Ltd

In German: Mozquito Technologies/SAP

XForms is a leading example of the new generation of Web standards. Like 
SVG and XHTML 2, it builds upon XML and other established Web 
specifications such as CSS, ECMAScript and the DOM. As a developer of 
Web technology, Blast Radius strongly supports the standardization of 
XForms and the continued evolution of platform-neutral, XML-based Web 
technology. We look forward to using XForms to develop content-creation 
and e-commerce applications for our global clients.

-- Paul Prescod, Blast Radius Inc.

The certification of XForms 1.0 CR marks an important milestone in the 
history of the Web--a single standard based on open technology for form 
data interchange and presentation. Cardiff Software is pleased to be one 
of the first vendors to support XForms with out-of-the-box design and 
publishing capabilities for XForms.

-- Micah Dubinko, Chief XML Architect, Cardiff Software Inc.

The XForms standards committee has done an excellent job. Our XFE 
product continues to receive a lot of attention from customers because 
of this standard. The strong market trend towards merging XML with forms 
as a means to manage data entry reinforces the bright future of this new 
standard." If it is used, please ascribe it to .

-- Anthony Tomasic, US CEO and co-founder of E-XMLMedia

XForms is the key to successful mobile web services. By adopting XForms' 
device-independent approach, the Handwise Informate framework can 
support a wide variety of devices without making any compromises on user 
interface or usability. With XForms' solid foundation of XML standards 
and its advanced validation and strong typing features, the application 
integration work is significantly easier and less error-prone. We are 
strongly committed to XForms and will continue to leverage the power of 
XML in our products.

-- Tomi Kankaanp??, CTO, Handwise Ltd.

HUT is pleased to see that the XForms specification has progressed to 
Candidate Recommendation. We have support for XForms and other W3C 
technologies in the Open Source XML browser X-Smiles. XForms enhances 
the Web by adding to forms many important user interaction features, 
which were previously only possible through extensive use of scripting 
or server side programming. It also enables clients to receive and send 
structured XML data. We have also found in our research that integration 
of XForms with XHTML, SMIL and SVG is feasible and will provide new 
usage scenarios for these languages.

-- Prof. Petri Vuorimaa, Head of TML laboratory, Helsinki University of 
Technology, Finland

Why has the Web succeeded? It's been successful because people knew that 
the underlying technology was standardized in an open way. HTML was an 
important tool in connecting people to the information they needed and 
we learned important lessons about avoiding company-specific extensions. 
Now XForms extends the power of XML to further enhance how companies and 
individuals do business on the Web. XForms has a great opportunity to be 
the standard, open, non-proprietary technology that will help people 
access information online on any device--and do everything from shopping 
and banking to checking their e-mail or calendar.

As one of the editors of the XForms specification, IBM is very pleased 
to see XForms become a W3C Candidate Recommendation. The XForms 
Candidate Recommendation is an important step toward establishing a true 
electronic forms standard which will be critical for cross-industry 
interoperability.

-- Dr. Bob Sutor, Director, IBM Web Services Strategy

As a founding member of the XForms activity, Mozquito is very pleased to 
see this important technology advance to Candidate Recommendation. It 
was an honor to work together with the members of the XForms working 
group on XForms 1.0.

Mozquito announces MarkupLanguage.net, the personal XML web, leveraging 
the power of XForms, delivered to browsers anywhere in the Mozquito 
XForms implementation.

-- Sebastian Schnitzenbaumer, CEO & Founder, Mozquito

The XForms 1.0 Release Candidate represents an important step forward 
for Web services-based application development. By standardizing XML 
data binding and device independent presentation, XForms will 
significantly streamline the development of Web pages and forms. Future 
releases of Novell exteNd, our integrated Web application development 
suite, will feature new presentation and page flow designers based on 
XForms to simplify and accelerate the delivery of portal-style Web 
applications. This will enable enterprise application developers with 
little or no Java experience to visually and rapidly build 
standards-based pages and page flows, tasks that previously required 
specialized programming skills. Novell believes that XForms will become 
a cornerstone for the delivery of next generation Web solutions and 
we're very pleased to support and be part of the W3C's efforts with XForms.

-- David Litwack, Novell's senior vice president for Web application 
development

PureEdge Solutions is very pleased that XForms 1.0 has become a W3C 
Candidate Recommendation, and we will support XForms in our Internet 
Commerce System?. PureEdge was the first to implement secure and dynamic 
XML e-forms and has participated throughout this important W3C effort. 
Standardizing the dynamic data and processing needs of complex forms 
will hasten migration from paper forms and result in web applications 
that are more robust, interoperable and maintainable than is possible 
with HTML systems. It was an honor to co-author XForms 1.0, and I look 
forward to a lead role in the ongoing development of XForms.

-- John Boyer, Ph.D., Senior Product Architect, PureEdge Solutions Inc.

Customers trust our products to handle their most important business 
documents, and being standards compliant is important to Xerox and to 
our customers, because they want to know how their information is 
handled. XForms will enable us to leverage XML technologies to provide 
cutting-edge document services and solutions that integrate seamlessly 
into the customer's environment.

-- Richard W. Peebles, Chief Technology Officer, Office Systems Group, Xerox

XForms is a technology which will change the way we build applications. 
With XForms we can now build systems that take advantage of the 
cheapness and ubiquity of the internet, without sacrificing the 
reliability and resilience gained through our traditional languages and 
tools. And because XForms dramatically eases the maintenance burden of 
large internet applications, we will see large, multi-language, 
multi-platform sites - in which the user can see information in the way 
that best suits them - becoming the norm, rather than the exception.

-- Mark Birbeck, Managing Director, x-port.net Ltd.

XForms Technologie ermoeglicht Benutzeroberflaechen im WWW, die in 
Sachen Funktionalitaet bisheriger PC Software in nichts nachstehen, 
allerdings mit dem grossen Vorteil, dass XForms Anwendungen nicht auf 
dem Rechner fest installiert werden muessen, sondern von ueberall im Web 
im Browser aufgerufen werden koennen. XForms ist darueber hinaus 
Platform- und Endgeraeteunabhaengig: Ein mobiles, dezentrales Arbeiten 
und Kommunizieren wird dadurch effizienter. Teleworking, 
netzwerk-orientiertes Arbeiten, mobiles Leben: XForms bietet hier 
zusammen mit den vorhandenen XML Bausteinen des W3C die notwendige 
Infrastruktur fuer Anwendungen. Mozquito, Gruendungsmitglied der W3C 
XForms Arbeitsgruppe, sass dieser internationalen Arbeitsgruppe bei der 
Definition von XForms 1.0 mit vor. Aus dem Selbstverstaendnis heraus, 
dass das WWW der gesamten Welt zur Verfuegung steht, ist es hier einem 
kleinen Team aus Deutschland gelungen an der Weiterentwicklung des Webs 
aktiv mitzuwirken. Auf der Basis dieser Erfahrungen bietet Mozquito 
weiterhin Unterstuetzung durch Know-How, Software und Loesungen fuer 
XForms und Anwendungen im WWW an.

-- Sebastian Schnitzenbaumer, CEO & Founder, Mozquito
About the World Wide Web Consortium [W3C]

The W3C was created to lead the Web to its full potential by developing 
common protocols that promote its evolution and ensure its 
interoperability. It is an international industry consortium jointly run 
by the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science (MIT LCS) in the USA, the 
National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Control (INRIA) 
in France and Keio University in Japan. Services provided by the 
Consortium include: a repository of information about the World Wide Web 
for developers and users, and various prototype and sample applications 
to demonstrate use of new technology. To date, over 450 organizations 
are Members of the Consortium.

For more information about the World Wide Web Consortium, see 
http://www.w3.org/



