docno="lists-042-7264747"
received="Tue Aug 12 17:30:22 2003"
isoreceived="20030812213022"
sent="Tue, 12 Aug 2003 14:29:20 -0700"
isosent="20030812212920"
name="Jim Whitehead"
email="ejw@cse.ucsc.edu"
subject="WebDAV Interoperability Testing Event - Sept. 15-16, Santa Cruz, CA"
id="AMEPKEBLDJJCCDEJHAMIOEDCIMAA.ejw@cse.ucsc.edu"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:"WebDAV"<w3c-dist-auth@w3.org>


All,

UC Santa Cruz is planning on hosting another interoperability testing event
this year, following up on the very successful events held the past two
years. This is a very efficient way to test your WebDAV implementation
against other clients/servers. I very much encourage WebDAV implementors to
attend. I'm having some graduate students (Kai Pan, Sung Kim) help out with
the organization this year,so that's why you'll see their names below.

The event is coming up very quickly, just about a month away. So, let us
know soon if you're planning on attending. Thanks!

- Jim




                   2003 WebDAV Face-to-Face Interoperability Testing Event

                                       Santa Cruz, California
                                 September 15-16, 2003, 9AM-6:30PM
                   Baskin Engineering Bldg., University of California, Santa
Cruz

   The goal of the WebDAV Interoperability Testing Event is to gather
together, in one physical
   location, developers and testers of WebDAV/DASL/DeltaV/ACL clients and
servers so they can
   exercise as many client/server pairs as possible. Ideally, all
functionality of each client
   will be tested against every server. This will quickly surface
interoperability problems. Once
   identified, these problems can sometimes be fixed on the spot (if
developers have brought
   source code), or can be targeted for resolution in the Draft Standard
(i.e., revised) version
   of RFC 2518.

   Similar WebDAV interop events were held in 2001 and 2002, and were very
successful. They are
   an extremely efficient way to do interoperability testing against a broad
array of clients and
   servers, allowing problems to be quickly identified and resolved.
Invariably, the net result
   of an interoperability testing event is a set of clients and servers that
work together
   better, offering better value for end-users.

   If you are planning on attending the WebDAV Interoperability Testing
Event, please register
   with Kai Pan <pankai@cs.ucsc.edu>

   Some details on the event:
     * Results from the event are NOT intended for distribution to the
Press. This is not an
       interoperability demonstration like those sometimes held at trade
shows for marketing
       purposes. Instead, this is a normal part of the engineering activity
of creating an
       interoperability standard. People attending the event for the sole
purpose of collecting
       marketing information will be asked to leave.
     * Since the room for this event is not super-big, a maximum of two
people may attend per
       independent code base. If you feel this is too restrictive, and would
prevent you from
       adequately testing your implementation, please send an email to Sung
Kim
       <hunkim@cs.ucsc.edu> to discuss alternatives.
     * The event will be held in the Baskin Engineering building on the
campus of UC Santa Cruz.
       Specifically, the room for the event (a picture of 1/2 of the room)
is a large common
       area, located outside room BE 115 (on the ground/first floor). There
are lots of tables,
       chairs, whiteboards, and electrical outlets available. Some
directions to UCSC and Baskin
       Engineering can be found here.
     * You will need to provide your own machines, with the client and/or
server software
       installed. UCSC will provide networking capabilities. The room for
the event is not
       secure, and only limited security will be provided. Ideally, you will
bring your WebDAV
       implementation on a laptop machine, so it can be set up and torn down
quickly.
     * Ideally attendees will bring their development environment, and a
copy of their source
       code, so that minor errors can be fixed on the spot. Sometimes it is
necessary to fix an
       error before further interoperability testing can take place.
     * Your WebDAV implementation does not need to be a shipping product. It
is OK to bring
       pre-release code for testing purposes. After all, it is best to catch
interoperability
       problems before users do.
     * DeltaV, DASL, and ACL client and server implementations are welcome
at the event.
     * HTTP proxies and caches that understand WebDAV and DeltaV are also
welcome to attend.
     * Open source implementations are welcome at the event.
     * A small, per-organization fee of $225 is being charged to cover the
cost of food and
       parking for the event. Please bring a check (no credit cards, sorry)
payable to UC
       Regents. It's free for the open source implementation group.
     * Cell phones do not work well in buildings on the UC Santa Cruz
campus. They do work
       reasonably well outside of buildings.
     * If you're traveling from afar, you should get accommodations as early
as you can. Santa
       Cruz is a popular vacation location in the summer. There are web
sites with information on
       Santa Cruz hotels and Bed and Breakfasts. The West Coast Santa Cruz
Hotel is nice, close
       to the event, and most rooms have an ocean view. 175 West Cliff
Drive, Santa Cruz,
       California 95060, 831-426-4330 or 800-426-0670.
     * The closest airport to Santa Cruz is San Jose (SJC), about 50 minutes
away. San Francisco
       airport (SFO) is also an option. It is about 1 hour and 30 minutes
away. Rush hour traffic
       can add 10-20 minutes to these drive times.
     * Electrical power (US style outlets only), network access, tables,
chairs, and food
       (coffee, lunch, and snacks) will be provided. A printer, and land
phone lines for credit
       card calls will very likely be available (this is planned, but not
yet confirmed).
     * Find more updated information on the 2003 WebDAV interoperability
event webpage,
       http://www.webdav.org/other/interop03.

   Other questions? Ask Sung Kim <hunkim@cs.ucsc.edu>.



