docno="lists-069-16708898"
received="Tue Jan 22 14:16:46 2002"
isoreceived="20020122191646"
sent="Tue, 22 Jan 2002 11:21:21 -0600"
isosent="20020122172121"
name="Lee Roberts"
email="leeroberts@roserockdesign.com"
subject="Re: Active Participants Listing"
id="NFBBJHFEOLAGEICMIMBPGEHACBAA.leeroberts@roserockdesign.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="Active Participants Listing"
expires="-1"

To:"WCAG List"<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


Please excuse my ignorance.

I realize I'm new to the group and some of you have been here from the
beginning.  But, please correct me if I err here on the side of caution.

The fact of whether someone is on the list is not important.  What is
important each of us are adding in a way that helps the world be a better
place.  If we continue to allow designers whose total elevation of Internet
savviness comes from having learned a programming language somewhere and has
no concept of what the front end does to people that want to access the
Internet we are back where we were and light years behind again.

I was under the assumption that this group's goal was to make the Internet a
better place.  I didn't realize this was a political venue where I'm better
because I've attended more meetings.  I assured the leadership that I would
not be able to travel to foreign countries and may not even be able to
travel to a meeting. I do, however, intend on providing input when possible
to perhaps provide a different view or a view that may not have been
considered.  I feel confident that I will be able to help in some small way.

Again, please excuse my ignorance.  If I'm on the "not so good list", but am
allowed to participate that is fine with me.  My suggestion to the situation
is to have a list of people that are considered Associate Members and a list
of people called Full Members.  The Associate Members could still have their
name on "the list" on the web site since that seems to be the goal of some
individuals.  Yet, the Associate Members could be ones that were not able to
make meetings due to work conflicts or funding issues for small shops and
unemployment for those that still want to participate.

If I get removed because of this view, I accept that.  It is not my
intention to offend in any manner.

Regards,
Lee Roberts
Rose Rock Design
Building web sites accessible by EVERYONE
http://www.roserockdesign.com



