docno="lists-091-1827402"
received="Wed May 23 18:53:46 2001"
isoreceived="20010523225346"
sent="24 May 01 7:09:13 AM"
isosent="20010524110913"
name="terbar39@excite.com"
email="terbar39@excite.com"
subject="SKIN RESTORATION IN A JAR"
id="BfPbH1E1z3Rm188q"
expires="-1"



SKIN PROBLEMS?  WE CAN SOLVE THEM.

Hello.  We have wonderful news for you.

If you suffer from any form of skin discolorations,
such as dark marks, acne or pimple marks, scars,
under-eye circles, razor bump marks, spots, freckles,
uneven skin tone, shaving scars, birth marks,
shavers shadow, moles, chicken pocks marks, 
stretch-marks, dark areas of skin, age spots, or any other skin
imperfections, you owe it to yourself to learn more about
"SKINCURE". Your skin can become dramatically
even-toned and clear.

"SKINCURE" was first created in 1975. It has been thoroughly
researched and perfected, has had many case studies conducted
and has been improved many times over the past 25 years.
This truly remarkable cosmetic treatment will eliminate your skin
problems once and for all.
"SKINCURE"  IS MADE FOR YOUR SKIN.
It's formula has been found by The U. S. Food and Drug 
Administration to be both safe and effective. 
SKINCURE is just as effective for males as it is for females,
and is completely safe and gentle to sensitive skin. 
Our skin treatments are for all races, shades and ages of skin.

If you wish to receive free additional information about "Skincure",
or If you have any questions, please email us by clicking the
reply button and writing us.   We will answer you quickly.

  ALSO...if you suffer from acne or pimples, skin bumps, blackheads or whiteheads,
email us for information about a remarkable acne and pimple remover.
   ...If you suffer from stretch-marks, please let us know also. We have
a stretch mark treatment made for this skin condition.  Just click reply and write us.
   ...Do you have psoriasis, eczema, rosacea or dermatitis? We can help. 

We are an international company. You can be assured of fast, reliable 
delivery. Our elaborate shipping facilities and expert staff assure
you of the highest quality service, whether you are here in the USA,
or anywhere in the world.
               Respectfully and Sincerely, Mrs. Christine Yang,
Mrs. Brenda Boykin and Mr. John Shigira

P. S. It is never our intention to offend or annoy or disrespect
anyone. If you do not appreciate receiving this message,
please let us know by simply clicking REPLY and typing
the word "REMOVE" IN THE SUBJECT LINE. (Not The Body)
You will then be promptly and permanently removed from our list.
We humbly apologize if you are in any way offended by receiving this 
email.

"SKIN IS OUR BUSINESS...OUR ONLY BUSINESS".



