docno="lists-080-13863394"
received="Fri Jan 30 16:25:00 2004"
isoreceived="20040130212500"
sent="Sat, 31 Jan 2004 08:08:31 +1100"
isosent="20040130210831"
name="Liddy Nevile"
email="Liddy.Nevile@motile.net"
subject="Accessibility Metadata Summit in Zurich - new date!!!Feb 14th"
id="750A41C7-5368-11D8-A429-0003936DC022@motile.net"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

Cc:ozewai@ozewai.org,DC-anz@dc-anz.org,DC-GENERAL@JISCMAIL.AC.UK,w3c-wai-ig@w3.org
To: DCMI Group<DC-ACCESSIBILITY@JISCMAIL.AC.UK>



  Metadata for Accessibility

  In order to make it possible for more Europeans to attend the proposed 
summit, we have postponed it until later in the original week in the 
hope that people traveling to Spain, or otherwise, can join us. I urge 
you to do so if you are concerned about metadata with relation to user 
profiles or resource/services, and how they are matched up.

Liddy

ps - attached below is the original invitation:

Invitation to Accessibility Metadata Summit

Metadata for Accessibility

IMS Global Learning Consortium is hosting an international 
collaborative effort to determine specifications for accessibility 
metadata to match their publicly released AccessForAll user profile
(http://www.imsglobal.org/accessibility/index.cfm).

IMS is soliciting input from parties who have an interest in 
accessibility and metadata. Work has been underway for some months and 
has led to a draft proposal for presentation at an Accessibility 
Metadata Summit to be held in Zurich, Switzerland on Monday February 
9th, 2004 where questions and comments will be welcomed.  Exact 
location of summit TBD.

Participation is by invitation and registration is required (there is 
no registration fee).  To request an invitation and register: email 
your name, contact information and email address to Toni Roberts at 
aroberts@nbnet.nb.ca prior to February 2, 2004.


Synopsis of Context

IMS has developed a user profile that describes user preferences 
regarding display, control and content.  Currently this work is being 
followed by a collaborative effort to develop metadata specifications 
for resources and services to match such preference descriptions.

The success of this effort will be partly in its interoperability, 
consequently various metadata standards groups are working together on 
this effort. Currently, W3C, DCMI, IMS, CEN-ISSS WS-LT, AGLS, 
EuroAccessibility and other groups have participated. The Summit will 
provide a special opportunity for these groups and others to come 
together to present their work and consider the interoperability and 
utility of the collaborative team's current proposals.

Participation is open and free but participants are asked to register 
in advance. Summit participants who are interested in further work in 
the collaboration may extend their participation to include attending 
the two-day Working Group meeting that will immediately follow the 
Summit.

The Summit program will be posted closer to the event but it is 
expected that there will be a detailed explanation of both the ACCLIP 
(the user profile) and the draft ACCMD (the resource/ service metadata 
model), and presentation of some proposed implementations within the 
various metadata standards such as the IMS metadata framework, Dublin 
Core metadata, etc.  Participants will be offered scheduled time to 
present their work and there will be a substantial discussion period.

For further information, contact the Accessibility Metadata Working 
Group Co-Chairs:

Jutta Treviranus(jutta.treviranus@utoronto.ca)

and

Toni Roberts(aroberts@nbnet.nb.ca)



