docno="lists-039-16353139"
received="Tue Jan 25 14:38:52 2000"
isoreceived="20000125193852"
sent="Tue, 25 Jan 2000 11:34:48 -0800"
isosent="20000125193448"
name="Jim Whitehead"
email="ejw@ics.uci.edu"
subject="WG Last Call: Redirect Reference Resources"
id="NDBBIKLAGLCOPGKGADOJEEMOCMAA.ejw@ics.uci.edu"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To: WebDAV WG<w3c-dist-auth@w3.org>



*** WORKING GROUP LAST CALL FOR COMMENTS ***

WEBDAV REDIRECT REFERENCE RESOURCES SPECIFICATION

<draft-ietf-webdav-redirectref-protocol-02>
http://www.ics.uci.edu/pub/ietf/webdav/collection/draft-ietf-webdav-redirect
ref-protocol-02.txt

This is the final call for comments from the working group on the WebDAV
Redirect Reference Resources protocol specification,
draft-ietf-webdav-binding-protocol-02. This last call period begins
immediately, and ends February 22, 2000, at midnight, US Pacific time.  This
allows 4 weeks for review of this specification.

At the end of the last call period, a new draft will be issued that resolves
comments raised during the last call period.  Depending on the scope of
changes, there will follow either an immediate call for rough consensus
(very few changes), or a second last call period (significant changes). Once
the document represents the rough consensus of the working group, I will
submit this document to the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG) for
their approval. IESG review involves a (minimum) two week public last call
for comments review period. This IESG-initiated last call period is in
addition to the working group last call period.

This document is intended to be a "Proposed Standard".  Quoting from RFC
2026, "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3":

   The entry-level maturity for the standards track is "Proposed
   Standard".  A specific action by the IESG is required to move a
   specification onto the standards track at the "Proposed Standard"
   level.

   A Proposed Standard specification is generally stable, has resolved
   known design choices, is believed to be well-understood, has received
   significant community review, and appears to enjoy enough community
   interest to be considered valuable.  However, further experience
   might result in a change or even retraction of the specification
   before it advances.

   Usually, neither implementation nor operational experience is
   required for the designation of a specification as a Proposed
   Standard.  However, such experience is highly desirable, and will
   usually represent a strong argument in favor of a Proposed Standard
   designation.

Many details on the procedures used to develop an IETF standard can be found
in RFC 2026, available at:

ftp://ftp.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2026.txt

If there are any procedural questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to
contact me, or raise an issue on the list.

Notes:

1) This specification is one of three that have been developed in tandem,
the other two being the WebDAV Bindings Protocol,
<draft-ietf-webdav-binding-protocol-02>, which just finished a working group
last call for comments period on January 24, and the Ordered Collections
Protocol, draft-ietf-webdav-ordering-protocol-02.  The Ordered Collections
Protocol will begin a working group last call for comments period
immediately following the end of this last call period, on February 23,
2000.  If you wish, you may submit comments on the Ordered Collections
protocol and the Redirect References protocol together during the present
last call period.

2) If you've been waiting for a "stable" version of the specification before
performing a review, wait no longer.  This is it.  Assuming the
specification receives only positive feedback, or mostly minor comments, it
will be submitted to the IESG for approval with no further WG last call
periods.  You should treat this as your last opportunity to provide feedback
on the specification.  Review the specification NOW.


- Jim Whitehead
Chair, IETF WEBDAV Working Group



