docno="lists-005-2670442"
received="Thu Mar 25 09:45:27 2004"
isoreceived="20040325144527"
sent="Thu, 25 Mar 2004 06:28:20 -0800"
isosent="20040325142820"
name="mazu22@zipmail.com.br"
email="mazu22@zipmail.com.br"
subject="urgent reply"
id="4062BDB000000619@www.zipmail.com.br"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:d_mazuri@yahoo.co.uk


PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTAL
E-MAIL:mawa@mail.bulgaria.com
Johannesburg,
South Africa



Dear Sir,
I know You will be surprised to receive this letter from me, but please
this letter is a request from a family in dare need of assistance. I am
Mr. MAWA MAZURI from Angola. The first, and only son of Brigadier Bulu Mazuri
communicating to you from Johannesburg, Republic of South  Africa.

I got your name and address from a business desk in chamber of commerce
and industry in Johannesburg. And I on behalf of my widowed mother Mrs.Anne
Mazuri,decided to solicit for your assistance to transfer the sum of US$32.5millio(thirty
two million, five hundred thousand United States dollars only)inherited
from my late father into your personal or company's account.

Before his death, he was Brigadier in charge of arms and ammunition rocurement
for the Angolan Army. In his "will" he specifically draw my attention  to
US$32.5 million (thirty two million, five hundred thousand United  States
dollars only) which he deposited in a box for private security company in
Johannesburg South Africa, IN FACT I QUOTE" My beloved son, I wish  to draw
your attention to US$32.5 million (thirty two million, five  hundred thousand
United States dollars only).  I deposited the box containing  the fund in
a security company in Johannesburg, South Africa as valuables.During the
war I was very dedicated and committed to winning the war against 
the rebel unit.

I found out that the senior army officers and government functionaries were
busy helping themselves with government fund and properties, sending them
to foreign countries. Due to this, when I and the former special adviser
to the president were assigned by the president (Jose Eduardo Santos) to
 purchase arms in South Africa, we saw this as a golden opportunity and
diverted  the money and shared it, of which I got a total sum of US$32..5
million  (thirty two million, five hundred thousand United State dollars
only).In case of my absence and on earth as a result of death, only you
should solicit  for the assistance of a reliable and sincere foreign partner
to assist you  transfer
this money out of South Africa for investment purpose.

I deposited the box in your name and you can claim it alone with
deposit code. Your mother is with all the documents. Take good care of mother
and your two sisters. Do not disappoint me! Bye! >From this word of my late
father, you will understand that lives and future of my family depend on
this fund as such.

I will be grateful if you can assist us. We are now living in South Africa
refugee camp, as political asylum seekers, financial laws and  regulation
of South Africa does not permit us certain financial right.
In view of this, I cannot invest this fund in South Africa hence; I am 
seeking your assistance to transfer this fund out of South Africa for  
investment purpose.For your effort, we are prepared to offer you 25% of
the total fund while 10% will be set aside for any expenses incurred during
this transaction.


Please, note that this transaction is 100% risk free and the major thing
I demand from you is to assure  me the safety of this money when it finally
gets to you. Further information and arrangement will commence as soon as
trust confidence and good relationship is established.I shall be most grateful
if you maintain the confidentiality of this matter.
Please, confirm your interest immediately by sending to me your private
telephone and fax number for communication.also to prepare your mind to
come over to meet us here in south to take you to the security company for
us to claim the consignment.

You are strictly advised to reply through this Address :
mawa@mail.bulgaria.com
Best regards,

MAWA MAZURI


 




------------------------------------------
Use o melhor sistema de busca da Internet
Radar UOL - http://www.radaruol.com.br



