docno="lists-058-14594635"
received="Tue Aug 31 16:45:25 1999"
isoreceived="19990831204525"
sent="Tue, 31 Aug 1999 16:47:50 -0400"
isosent="19990831204750"
name="Jutta Treviranus"
email="jutta.treviranus@utoronto.ca"
subject="Rewording of Introduction"
id="v04011709b3f1e15234d9@[142.150.64.191]"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-au@w3.org
Cc:jbrewer@w3.org

I propose the following rewording to the last two paragraphs of the
Introduction (in response to Judy's comments). Somehow in the multiple
re-edits we have blurred the distinction between making the tool accessible
and making a tool that generates accessible content (note the sentence :
"It does design issues directly related to accessible authoring tools, such
as automation, accessibility checking, appropriate documentation,
navigation mechanisms, prompts, the adoption of system conventions, and
other features that will result in authoring tools which allow users to
create accessible content regardless of disability.")

Present wording is:

 An accessible authoring tool is accessible software that produces
accessible content for the Web. For detailed information about the
production of accessible content this document relies on the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines [WAI-WEBCONTENT]. Similarly, this document does
not directly address the general design of accessible software. It does
design issues directly related to accessible authoring tools, such as
automation, accessibility checking, appropriate documentation, navigation
mechanisms, prompts, the adoption of system conventions, and other features
that will result in authoring tools which allow users to create accessible
content regardless of disability. Because most of the Web is created using
authoring tools, they play a critical role in ensuring the accessibility of
the web.

            A separate document, entitled Techniques for Authoring Tool
Accessibility [WAI-AUTOOLS-TECH], provides suggestions and examples of how
each checkpoint might be satisfied, It also includes references to other
accessibility resources (such as platform-specific software accessibility
guidelines) which give additional information on how a tool may satisfy
each checkpoint. Readers are strongly encouraged to become familiar with
the techniques document. Please note that while there may be many helpful
suggestions there the requirements which need to be fulfilled are the
checkpoints in this document, and ways other than those suggested may be
appropriate for some tools.

Proposed revision is:

An accessible authoring tool is accessible software that produces
accessible content for the Web. Thus the goals of this document can be
stated as follows: that the authoring tool be accessible to authors
regardless of disability, that the authoring tool generate accessible
content by default, and that the authoring tool support and encourage the
author in creating accessible content. Because most of the Web is created
using authoring tools, they play a critical role in ensuring the
accessibility of the Web. Since the Web is both a means of receiving
information and communicating information, it is important that both the
web content produced and the authoring tool itself be accessible. For
detailed information about what constitutes accessible content this
document relies on the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
[WAI-WEBCONTENT]. The document provides guidelines for designing authoring
tools that generate web content that conforms to the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines and that support and encourage authors to create
content that conforms to the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.
Similarly,this document does not address general accessible software design
but relies on other sources. It does address accessible design
considerations specific to Web authoring tools.

            A separate document, entitled Techniques for Authoring Tool
Accessibility [WAI-AUTOOLS-TECH], provides suggestions and examples of how
each checkpoint might be satisfied. It also includes references to other
accessibility resources (such as platform-specific software accessibility
guidelines) that give additional information on how a tool may satisfy each
checkpoint. Readers are strongly encouraged to become familiar with the
techniques document. Please note that the techniques are merely suggested
implementations of the checkpoints, alternative strategies may be used to
meet the requirements of the checkpoints.

End of revision

As previously suggested I have included the goal statement and have
addressed the awkward wording of the second paragraph.

Jutta



