docno="lists-005-3619281"
received="Fri Mar 26 23:51:46 2004"
isoreceived="20040327045146"
sent="Fri, 26 Mar 2004 20:36:57 -0800 (PST)"
isosent="20040327043657"
name="Labaram E. Van Glendoven."
email="bantiful11@inecnig.com"
subject="STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL"
id="20040327043657.3289.qmail@web106.biz.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:bantiful11@inecing.com


From: Mrs. Labaram E. Van Glendoven.

Glendoven Farms, 
Chipinge, Zimbabwe. 


Dear Sir, 


I am Mrs. Labaram E. Van Glendoven, a widow to late
Clement Van Glendoven, a white Zimbabwean Farmer and
political opposition leader, before his suden death,
the owner of Diary farms limited in Zimbabwe. He owned
three tobacco farms in Chipinge, also a majority owner
of Glendoven. Farm also situated in Chipinge, in
Zimbabwe. You can see more details about my situation
and BBC interviews on the websites below: 

 

http://www.1freespace.com/beetee/nov19_2001.html 
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/918781.stm 
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/715001.stm 
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/1063785.stm
http://www.gta.gov.zw/land%20issues/LAND.htm 


I am contacting you as the need to for me to have a
foreign partner in 
your country has become necessary due to our plans to
relocate to that country so that I can start my life
all over again as the present political instability in
Zimbabwe does not encourage financial investment 
as the environment and is no longer conducive for me
and my three children. Because of the political
instabilities and wanton distruction of lives and
properties, I was assisted by a good samaritan to
safety in Johannesburg, South Africa. This was
reported widely by most international media. 


This problem started when the Zimbabwean government
under the leadership 
of President Robert Mugabe announced a decree on May
31st 2000 to seize more than 849 white and political
opposition owned farms. During these periods, as
reported by international media, BBC and the CNN, more
than 6 white farmers were killed including my late
husband. The government did not stop at this, as just
recently the government have asked all white-farmers
to give up their farms to black farmers and
politicians who are in alliance with the ruling party
or risk going to prison and possibly killed. So far,
more than 1,400 white owned farms have been invaded
and confiscated, as well as claiming the properties of
the farmers. Also, about 133 white farmers were
arrested for defying the orders to leave their farms
under the controversial land reform programme of the
government. Having married and lived with my late
husband in this country Zimbabwe for more than 32
years, I have no other country to go to. Therefore, I
decided to contact you, for your assistance, so that I
can divert my interest in Zimbabwe to a more stable
country as yours. Before my husband suden death, he
was able to planned well ahead of time to secure some
of our properties which were meant for a new farm in
Boswana and made a reason money deposit to a finance
company. I will not disclose the name of the finance
company and the amount that was deposited for security
reasons. 

 

However, I will make it known to you as soon as I
receive a response from you through my lawyer who has
been authorized to act on my behalf. The finance
company is not aware of the actual contents of the
consignment. All they know is that the two box
consignment contain gem stones as reflected in the
deposit certificate. Also, I must re-iterate the
importance of having a citizen of your country to
front for me, since I intend to invest and settle in
your country. I do not know much about your country's
land-ownership laws, I thought it wise to seek the
help of a citizen to act as proxy for me and my
children as their future is right now very bleak. I
will upon receiving your consent make all arrangement
to move the funds to you pending my arrival to meet
with you in your country so that we can both make
further arrangements with regards to the investment.
Every modality will be worked out by my lawyer to
ensure that the money is conveniently moved to your
region to enable you receive it in person without any
setbacks or inconveniencies. He will arrange a smooth
meeting between you and the finance company for the
delivery to you.

 

For your assistance to me, you will be entittled to a
commission of 30% of the total sum that you will be
receiving on my behalf for the above purpose. If you
are interested and willing to assist me, you should
please forward to my lawyer via his private email
address as stated below: 

 

MR. JOSEPH A. McCATHY.

McCATHY AND COMPANY.

92, VICTORIA STREET, JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA.

E-MAIL:  joe_mccathy@tiscali.co.uk


I am waiting urgently for your response, while also
requesting that you treat this matter in strict
privacy. 

 

Presently, I am in great danger under security watch
and will appreciate you correspond with me via my
lawyer's confidential email address:
<joe_mccathy@tiscali.co.uk> with the following
details: 

 

1. YOUR FULL NAMES AND CONTACT ADDRESS. 
2. YOUR TELEPHONE AND FAX NUMBER .
3. YOUR DATE OF BIRTH.


Cheers and God bless. 

 

MRS LABARAM A. GLENDOVEN. 


(GLENDOVEN FARMS, CHIPINGE, ZIMBABWE)



