docno="lists-105-3908100"
received="Fri Mar 23 11:37:26 2001"
isoreceived="20010323163726"
sent="Fri, 23 Mar 2001 11:37:19 -0500 (EST)"
isosent="20010323163719"
name="Judie Mulholland"
email="judiemul@kc-inc.net"
subject="CfP, Workshop on Security and Privacy in Digital Rights Manageme   nt 2001 (fwd)"
id="Pine.LNX.4.21.0103231133000.19864-100000@c3po.kc-inc.net"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-idrm@lists.elistx.com,www-drm@w3.org


fyi/j

ps

sorry for the cross-posting.


--- begin forwarded text


From: Tomas Sander <sander@intertrust.com>
Subject:  CfP, Workshop on Security and Privacy in Digital Rights Manageme
nt 2001
Date: Mon, 19 Mar 2001 17:03:19 -0800


            CALL FOR PAPERS

  WORKSHOP ON SECURITY AND PRIVACY IN DIGITAL RIGHTS MANAGEMENT 2001

         November 5, 2001
                  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA

      held as part of the  Eighth ACM Conference on Computer and
      Communications Security (CCS-8)

       Workshop web site: http://www.star-lab.com/sander/spdrm/


Increasingly  the Internet  is used  for the  distribution  of digital
goods,  including  digital  versions  of books,  articles,  music  and
images.  The  ease  with  which   digital  goods  can  be  copied  and
redistributed make the Internet  well suited for unauthorized copying,
modification   and   redistribution.  The   rapid   adoption  of   new
technologies  such  as  high  bandwidth connections  and  peer-to-peer
networks is accelerating this process.

This workshop will consider technical problems faced by rights holders
(who  seek to  protect  their intellectual  property  rights) and  end
consumers (who  seek to protect  their privacy and to  preserve access
they now enjoy in traditional media under existing copyright law).

Digital  Rights Management (DRM)  systems are  supposed to  serve mass
markets, in  which the participants have conflicting  goals and cannot
be  fully trusted. This  adversarial situation  introduces interesting
new twists  on classical problems  studied in cryptology  and security
research,  such as  key management  and access  control.  Furthermore,
novel business  models and  applications often require  novel security
mechanisms. Recent research has  also proposed new primitives for DRM,
such as hash functions that make it possible to identify content in an
adversarial setting.

The workshop  seeks submissions from academia  and industry presenting
novel research  on all  theoretical and practical  aspects of  DRM, as
well  as  experimental  studies   of  fielded  systems.  We  encourage
submissions  from other  communities  such as  law  and business  that
present these communities' perspectives on technological issues. It is
planned  to publish  accepted papers  in proceedings  in  the Springer
Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS) series.

Topics of interest include, but  are not limited to, the following, as
they relate to digital rights management:

        access control mechanisms for digital rights
        anonymous publishing
        architectures for DRM systems
        auditing and piracy
        broadcast encryption and traitor tracing
        business models and their security requirements
        electronic commerce protocols
        encryption and authentication for multimedia data
        fair use
        key management in DRM systems
        payment mechanisms
        peer-to-peer networks
        portability of digital rights
        privacy and anonymity
        privacy-preserving data mining
        risk management
        robust identification of digital content
        security for auctions and other emerging business models for
                     digital goods
        security models
        software tamper resistance
        tamper resistant hardware and consumer devices
        threat and vulnerability assessment
        trust management
        usability aspects of client software, consumer devices
        watermarking and fingerprinting for media and software


   IMPORTANT DATES

Submission  deadline                                 August    3, 2001
Acceptance  notification                             September 7, 2001



    PROGRAM CHAIR

Tomas Sander, InterTrust STAR Lab
sander@intertrust.com,  +1-408-855 0242



  PROGRAM COMMITTEE

Eberhard Becker, University of Dortmund
Dan Boneh, Stanford University
Karlheinz Brandenburg, Fraunhofer Institute for Integrated Circuits
Leonardo Chiariglione, CSELT
Drew Dean, Xerox PARC
Joan Feigenbaum, Yale University
Edward Felten, Princeton University
Yair Frankel, eCash Technologies
Markus Jakobsson, Bell Labs
Paul Kocher, Cryptography Research
John Manferdelli, Microsoft Research
Kevin McCurley, IBM Research
Moni Naor, Weizmann Institute
Fabien Petitcolas, Microsoft Research
Pamela Samuelson, University of California, Berkeley
Hal Varian, University of California, Berkeley
Moti Yung, CertCo



       PAPER SUBMISSIONS

Submitted papers must not  substantially overlap with papers that have
been published or that are  simultaneously submitted to a journal or a
conference  with  proceedings.  Papers  should  be at  most  18  pages
excluding the bibliography  and well-marked appendices (using 11-point
font and  reasonable margins), and  at most 22 pages  total. Committee
members are not  required to read the appendices  and the paper should
be intelligible without  them. The paper should start  with the title,
names of  authors and an  abstract. The introduction should  give some
background and  summarize the  contributions of the  paper at  a level
appropriate  for a  non-specialist reader.  It is  planned  to publish
accepted  papers  in proceedings  in  the  Springer  Lecture Notes  in
Computer  Science  (LNCS)  series  after  the  workshop.   During  the
workshop preproceedings will be made available. Final versions are not
due until  after the workshop,  giving the authors the  opportunity to
revise their papers based on discussions during the meeting.

Submissions  can be  made in  Postscript, PDF  or MS  Word  format. To
submit a  paper, send a  plain ASCII text  email to the  program chair
(email:  sander@intertrust.com) containing the  title and  abstract of
the paper, the  authors' names, email and postal  addresses, phone and
fax numbers,  and identification of  the contact author.  To  the same
message, attach your submission (as a MIME attachment). Papers must be
received by  August 3, 2001.  Notification of acceptance  or rejection
will be  sent to authors no  later than September 7,  2001. Authors of
accepted papers must  guarantee that their paper will  be presented at
the workshop. Final  versions (due after the workshop)  need to comply
with the instructions for authors made available by Springer.





--- end forwarded text


-- 
-----------------
R. A. Hettinga <mailto: rah@ibuc.com>
The Internet Bearer Underwriting Corporation <http://www.ibuc.com/>
44 Farquhar Street, Boston, MA 02131 USA
"... however it may deserve respect for its usefulness and antiquity,
[predicting the end of the world] has not been found agreeable to
experience." -- Edward Gibbon, 'Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire'

For help on using this list (especially unsubscribing), send a message to
"dcsb-request@reservoir.com" with one line of text: "help".



