docno="lists-033-3405817"
received="Tue Oct 22 12:31:15 2002"
isoreceived="20021022163115"
sent="Mon, 21 Oct 2002 23:30:49 -0600"
isosent="20021022053049"
name="A Different Way To Learn A New Language"
email="saamlanguagep@tutopia.com"
subject="Information"
id="200210221630.g9MGUtB29684@frink.w3.org"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:<svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org>

To whom it may concern:

We have decided to contact you after visiting your website which allowed us to gain a better insight as to the quality of your institution. 

At SAAMLanguageCenter we specialize in teaching Spanish as a Second Language (SSL) to foreigners worldwide,  primarily to high school, college, university students and corporate professionals, who are looking for a practical program, with both quality and effectiveness, to help them understand and speak this language.

Our SSL Program is an intensive language program that allows the students to obtain two important benefits: 1) the proper instruction and methodology to learn the language in a considerable short period of time, and 2) the constant cultural and living experience guided and advised throughout their stay in either of these countries by our instructors and personnel.  This in turn provides them with a fruitful learning endeavor.  

We hold our SSL Program in Panama City, Republic of Panama, which we have chosen for its reliable modern infrastructure, security, colorful culture and political stability.  We have all the comfort necessary for the well-being of your students, and our team provides all the support and the logistics for their pleasant stay in this country.  Your students will be in the best hands, just as if they were in yours. 

We would like to explore the possibility of developing a liaison where your prestigious academic institution will be able to offer its students our SSL Program (Spanish as a Second Language Program) and discuss the benefits and aggregate value this relationship will provide your institution. We would appreciate your contact information, as well as the name and details for the person handling these matters, so that we may provide you with the proper details of our program while exploring the different avenues our establishments can benefit from by working together. You may contact us at: (507) 263-2887 (Rep. of Panama) or at our representative office in Miami, FL, (305) 815-3495, or write to us via email: saamlanguage@tutopia.com

Thank you very much for your attention.

Yours sincerely,
SAAMLanguage Center


Mar?a Briz
International Relations



This message contains confidential information and is intended only for the individual named. If you are not the named addressee you should not disseminate, distribute or copy this e-mail. Please notify the sender immediately by e-mail if you have received this e-mail by mistake and delete this e-mail from your system. E-mail transmission cannot be guaranteed to be secure or error-free as information could be intercepted, corrupted, lost, destroyed, arrive late or incomplete, or contain viruses. The sender therefore does not accept liability for any errors or omissions in the contents of this message, which arise as a result of e-mail transmission. If verification is required please request a hard-copy version.  If this message may have caused you any inconvenience, please write to us at: saamlanguage@tutopia.com .  We apologyze for any inconvenience caused.   



