docno="lists-081-13921039"
received="Tue Dec  3 21:21:54 2002"
isoreceived="20021204022154"
sent="Tue Dec  3 21:21:54 2002"
isosent="20021204022154"
name="drpatrickomo"
email="drpatrickomo@hknetmail.com"
subject="urgent/important request"
id="200212040221.VAA05667@tux.w3.org"
expires="-1"


To:"w3c-wai-rc"<w3c-wai-rc@w3.org>

Sir 
URGENT BUSINESS PROPOSAL 

First, I must solicit your confidence in this transaction; this is by virtue of its nature as being utterly confidential and top secret. Though I know that a transaction of this magnitude will make any one apprehensive and worried, but I am assuring you that all will be well at the end of the day. We have decided to contact you due to the urgency of this transaction, as we have been reliably informed of your discreetness and ability in transaction of this nature.

 Let me start by introducing myself properly to you. I am Dr. Patrick Omo, Credit Officer with the Union Bank of Nigeria Plc, Lagos. I came to know you in my Private Search for a Reliable and Reputable Person to handle this Confidential Transaction, which involves the transfer of Huge Sum of Money to a Foreign Account requiring Maximum Confidence. 

THE PROPOSITION: 

A Foreigner an Orient, Late Engr. Seiji Kato Ono(Snr.) an Oil Merchant with The Federal Government of Nigeria, until his death months ago in Kenya Air Bus (A310 - 300) Flight KQ430, Banked with us at Union Bank of Nigeria Plc, Lagos and had a closing balance as at the end of September, 2000 worth US$30,000,000.00 (Thirty Million United State Dollars), the bank now expects a next of kin as beneficiary. Valuable efforts are being made by the Union Bank of Nigeria to get in touch with any of the ONO's Family or Relatives but to no success. 

It is because of the perceived possibility of not being able to locate any of Late Engr. Seiji Kato Ono(Snr.)?s next of kin (He had no wife or children that is known to us). The Management under the influence of our Chairman and Members of the Board of Directors, that arrange has been made for the fund to be declared ?Unclaimed? and subsequently be donated to the trust fund for arms and ammunition to further enhance the course of War in Africa and the World in General. 

In order to avert this negative development, some of my trusted colleagues and I now seek your permission to have you stand as next of kin to Late Engr. Seiji Kato Ono(Snr.) so that the fund US$30 Million will be released and paid into your Account as the beneficiary?s next of kin. All documents and proves to enable you get this fund will be carefully worked out. We have secured from the probate an order of madamus to locate any of deceased beneficiaries, and more so we are assuring you that this business is 100% Risk Free involvement. Your share stays while the rest be for myself and my colleagues for investment purpose. According to agreement within both parties. As soon as we receive an acknowledgment of receipt of this message in acceptance of our mutual business proposal, we would furnish you with the necessary modalities and disbursement ratio to suite both parties without any conflict.

 Kindly find below further details on how we are going to successfully accomplish this transaction. We on our side here in Nigeria will on your behalf secure all Documents from the Federal High Court of Justice that will stand you as the "Next of kin" to "Late, Engr. Seiji Kato Ono". In this regards the Affidavit of trust will be back-dated to suit the claim as if it was sworn by the late ENGINEER SEIJO KATO ONO before his death.

 As soon as the Documents are secured, a specimen of a "letter of Claim" will be sent to you as to enable you transcribe into your Letter Headed paper and returned back through fax to the office of the General Manager (UBN) for approvals of the said Funds in your favour. As soon as the funds are wired into your account, we will immediately require from you, letters of invitation which will enable us to secure our visa from your embassy and proceed to meeting with you in your country for the sharing of the funds as agreed by both parties. 

With regards to the investment of the money (our shares) as we are not residence in your country, we will also appreciate that you further help us in investing it on our behalf. A text of an investment agreement will be drawn out and sent to you for review before endorsement (original). I want you to please note that the General Manager of UNION BANK OF NIGERIA Plc is not aware of this transaction, the only people aware of it is me and two of my colleagues who are in the Audit department and the other in the Operations Department. Note that that this transaction is 100% safe and risk free Involvement as all modalities for the safe release of the funds have been put in place. Documents and approvals will be secured officially from the respective ministry and departments which will justify the legality of the funds. All discussions/negotiations as regards your percentage or share in this transaction has been discussed/concluded and we agreed on giving you (25%) of the money for assisting us in the successful conclusion of this transaction. Therefore, to enable us commence with this transaction and to obtain the required vital documents from the Federal High Court, I would want you to immediately send to me your complete Banking particulars (bank name and address, account number, beneficiary name or owner of account,) as well as your private telephone and fax numbers that you would want us to use in securing the documents and approvals in your favour for the transfer of the said fund.

 I also want you to know that sending my proposal to you does not mean that I have finally decided to entrust or handle this transaction with you. My proposal to you is Subject to a "YES OR NO" by you; if you know that you are interested and capable of handling this transaction with all it demands, please indicate properly. This transaction requires somebody who can handle it with care and Attach importance to it, somebody who is up and doing, the person must be ready to conclude and follow the transaction till the end of it. Such person should also show fort his capability, willingness, readiness at all times, more also the person must be calling on phone daily as to know way about with regards to this transaction. This Business must be attached with utmost Confidentiality and should not be disclosed to anybody, no matter how close on how you are going to make money from a Nigerian friend and it should be within your inner mind only. 

You can reach me on my private email address:patrickomo@pinoymail.com or on fax 234-1-7596975. If this proposal is acceptable by you, do not make undue advantage of the trust we have bestowed in you. 

Best Regards. 

DR. PATRICK OMO 

CREDIT OFFICER (UBN) 
    


