docno="lists-107-13935329"
received="Wed Feb  7 01:55:19 1996"
isoreceived="19960207065519"
sent="Tue, 06 Feb 96 21:55:46 est"
isosent="19960207025546"
name="glen@met.bitstream.com"
email="glen@met.bitstream.com"
subject="Font Solutions for Web (Font Embedding)"
id="9601068236.AA823672624@met.bitstream.com"
expires="-1"


To:david@dsiegel.com,www-font@w3.org
Cc:james@met.bitstream.com,johnc@met.bitstream.com,johns@met.bitstream.com,admin@verso.com,ray@met.bitstream.com,glen@met.bitstream.com

     
     Dear David and Hussein,
     
     Yes we are Font Fanatics. Information below is in response to your 
     great fonts page "fonts.verso.com".  I'll try to make one response per 
     issue. Glen Rippel
     
     Font Embedding:
        1. TrueType fonts contain embedable status bits and only they 
        should be used to dynamically make decisions if a font can be 
        embedded or accessed remotely. 
        2. Type 1 fonts from foundries are sold with licensing models that 
        are all over the map. Some allow for embedding of fonts for viewing 
        only, some allow for viewing and printing, and some do not allow 
        either. The point is that there is no embedding status data 
        contained in Type1 fonts that can be used by authoring and viewing 
        software to make these important legal decisions.
        3. Subsetting a font to include only the necessary characters is a 
        good idea only if done carefully. Removing characters and 
        maintaining the original font format, name, and hint data clearly 
        violates most font foundries software licenses. The only legal 
        method we know is to allow the font to be executed by the font 
        scaler, refit the curves, and recast the data into a neutral 
        non-infringing data type. 
            Further, just because TrueType fonts may allow one to embed the 
        font, it is important to note that the font foundry did not give 
        the rights to disassemble the fonts or subset the fonts.
        
        Our goal should be to make it easy for the surfer to view a 
        document with the font fidelity they would like. If they wish to 
        view the content without font fidelity that should be their choice. 
        If they would like to have full font fidelity and take the download 
        hit, they should have this choice also. These choices could be set 
        within the preferences of the browsers, very similar to turning 
        graphics on or off.  As far a font publishers selling fonts or 
        giving them away for free that should be the publishers choice and 
        should not be a consideration. Our goal should be to specify a 
        clean and legally safe method for selecting font fidelity.
        
        Font Embedding Proposal modification:
        Adobe's scheme for embedding fonts in PDF files may seem good, but 
        it done without regard to the end-users licensing rights granted by 
        the font foundry. 
        We purpose that authoring software fully execute the font programs 
        and cast the data into a non-infringing data structure. At this 
        point, links to the font fragments or embedding of the neutral font 
        data is safe and secure. Browser and authoring developers can 
        control how fonts behave within their applications, and should feel 
        secure that the specifications and technology are legally sound. 
        
        Direct rasterization at high speed or on-demand generation of 
        TrueType or Type1 fully hinted font formats with temporary install 
        for printing and viewing would be ideal. Also anti-alias support 
        would be a definite plus. TrueDoc is the only font technology 
        designed with all of these factors taken into consideration.
        
        Surfers get the level of font fidelity they desire.
        Authors get to publish with any fonts they desire.
        Font Foundries safer and enjoy the larger publisher market.



