docno="lists-081-15813805"
received="Wed Jun  3 13:03:58 1998"
isoreceived="19980603170358"
sent="Wed, 3 Jun 1998 12:56:52 +0300"
isosent="19980603095652"
name="Marja-Riitta Koivunen"
email="marja@w3.org"
subject="Some comments to current draft"
id="01BD8EEF.1AA6AA20@marjalt.w3c"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:"'w3c-wai-ua@w3.org'"<w3c-wai-ua@w3.org>
Cc:"'ian@w3.org'"<ian@w3.org>

WAI Guidelines: Browser User Interface

Here are my comments. I tried to leave out the ones that were already discussed yesterday but there might still be some. Sorry about this.

1 Rating and Classification

The link behind "one or more users" is good. However shouldn't we include also TABs (temporary di-sappled) to this list and explain how these features benefit also people in noisy environments, environ-ments were noise is not tolerated (library, cubicles area, when children are asleep etc.), people with wi-reless devices, people whose hands are tied or concentration is low (e.g. driving a car) etc. etc. This would emphasize the benefits to almost everyone in some environment.

2.3  Selection ...

Activation is the user commanding the browser ... 
Maybe this is perfect english but I think it can be said more clearly. (Activation means that... or Activa-tion is the action when user ...)

3.1  Control over Browser ...

This was discussed already. I just would like to clarify my suggestion of allowing the users create cus-tomized switch sets (e.g. a window with check boxes where fonts, images, colors, tables etc. are selec-ted or turned on/off/leave as is) these sets can then be named and presented as buttons or menu items. When a button is selected it activates the switches and selections unless they are "leave as is". Some readymade definitions could be available for instance only text or only sound button. This would allow users a way to easily change the attributes they wish in bundles that suit them.

3.3  Alternative Repres...

1.  Allow the user to turn on audio descriptions of videos, movies, and animations.
I think that audio descriptions can be also defined within HTML OBJECT, shouln't we be able to turn these on and off also and display the alternative text or longdesc instead? I guess the type of an OB-JECT tells if it is an image or something else.

3. Provide a serialized view of tables
This could be more flexible. At least the user should be able to toggle between rows first/columns first serialization. The summary of the table should probably be a switch too that can be turned off and on.

4.1 Maintenance of Document View and Focus

As a user activates links and returns to previously visited documents that their last view and focus in the document remain the same. 
--- change to: As user returns to a previously visited document the last view and focus in the document should remain the same.
For how long? Until next activation of the browser?

5.1 Sequential navigation
Why not also between OBJECTs. I don't think it matters to the user if the designer used IMG or OB-JECT tag to define a picture.

5.2 Hierarchical Navigation
Is hierachy a separate window?

5.6 Dynamic HTML elements

2.  Is this a specific view or window?

6.1 Menu Commands
2.  Maybe the menus and iconbars should be customizable allowing these commands rather than forcing everybody to use them?

7.2 Compatibility ...
Last word in chapter is There



