docno="lists-031-15338810"
received="Sat Jul 13 15:49:55 2002"
isoreceived="20020713194955"
sent="Sat, 13 Jul 2002 19:52:24 +0200"
isosent="20020713175224"
name="The Financial News"
email="newsletters@the-financial-news.com"
subject="Development Countries, News in brief"
id="MDAEMON-F200207131956.AA560263md50011748242@wtnserver"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org



The Financial News, July 2002

Production Mini-plants in mobile containers. Co-investment Program

"...Science Network will supply to countries and developing regions the technology and the necessary support for the production in series of Mini-plants in mobile containers (40-foot). The Mini-plant system is designed in such a way that all the production machinery is fixed on the platform of the container, with all wiring, piping, and installation parts; that is to say, they are fully equipped... and the mini-plant is ready for production."

More than 700 portable production systems: Bakeries, Steel Nails, Welding Electrodes, Tire Retreading, Reinforcement Bar Bending for Construction Framework, Sheeting for Roofing, Ceilings and Fa?ades, Plated Drums, Aluminum Buckets, Injected Polypropylene Housewares, Pressed Melamine Items (Glasses, Cups, Plates, Mugs, etc.), Mufflers, Construction Electrically Welded Mesh, Plastic Bags and Packaging, Mobile units of medical assistance, Sanitary Material, Hypodermic Syringes, Hemostatic Clamps, etc. 
Science Network has started a process of Co-investment for the installation of small Assembly plants to manufacture in series the Mini-plants of portable production on the site, region or country where they may be required. One of the most relevant features is the fact that these plants will be connected to the World Trade System (WTS) with access to more than 50 million raw materials, products and services and automatic transactions for world trade.

Due to financial reasons, involving cost and social impact, the right thing to do is to set up assembly plants in the same countries and regions, using local resources (labor, some equipment, etc.)

Science Network participates with 50% in the investment of each Assembly plant.

For more information: <A HREF="mailto:reports@the-financial-news.com">Mini-plants in mobile containers</A>

By Steven P. Leibacher, The Financial News, Editor


Mini-plantas de produccion en contenedores moviles. Programa de Co-inversion

"...Science Network suministrara a paises y regiones en vias de desarrollo la tecnologia y el apoyo necesario para la fabricacion en serie de Mini-plantas de produccion en contenedores moviles (40-foot). El sistema de mini-plantas esta dise?ado de forma que todas las maquinas de produccion van instaladas fijas sobre la propia plataforma del contenedor, con el cableado, tuberias e instalaciones; es decir, completamente equipadas... y a partir de ese momento est?n listas para producir." 
Mas de 700 sistemas de produccion portatil: Panaderias, Producci?n de clavos de acero, Electrodos para soldadura, Recauchutado de neumaticos, Curvado de hierro para armaduras de construccion, Lamina perfilada para cubiertas, techos y cerramientos de fachada, Bidones de chapa, Cubos de aluminio, Menaje de polipropileno inyectado, Piezas de melamina prensada (vasos, platos, tazas, cafeteras, etc.) Silenciadores para vehiculos, Malla electrosoldada para la construccion, Bolsas y envases de plastico, Unidades moviles de asistencia medica, Material sanitario (jeringas hipodermicas, Pinzas hemostaticas, etc.)

Science Network ha puesto en marcha un proceso de Co-inversion para la instalacion de peque?as Plantas ensambladoras para fabricar en serie las Mini-plantas de produccion portatil, en el lugar, region o pais que lo necesite. Una de las caracter?sticas relevantes es el hecho de que dichas plantas quedaran conectadas al Sistema del Comercio Mundial (WTS) con acceso a mas de 50 millones de mercancias, materia primas, productos, servicios y las operaciones automaticas de comercio internacional.

Resulta obvio que por razones economicas, de costes y de impacto social, lo apropiado es instalar plantas ensambladoras en los mismos paises y regiones asi como utilizar los recursos locales (mano de obra, ciertos equipamientos, etc.)

Science Network participa al 50% en la inversion de cada Planta ensambladora.

Para recibir mas informacion: <A HREF="mailto:reports@the-financial-news.com">Mini-plantas de produccion en contenedores moviles</A>

Steven P. Leibacher, The Financial News, Editor

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
If you received this in error or would like to be removed from our list, please return us indicating: remove or un-subscribe in 'subject' field, Thanks. <A HREF="mailto:newsletters@the-financial-news.com"> Editor</A>
? 2002 The Financial News. All rights reserved.



