docno="lists-005-2638887"
received="Thu Mar 25 08:19:24 2004"
isoreceived="20040325131924"
sent="Thu, 25 Mar 2004 15:19:27 +0200"
isosent="20040325131927"
name="frobza@yahoo.co.in"
email="frobza@yahoo.co.in"
subject="INVITATION FOR PARTNERSHIP"
id="20040325131924.DD6F1A1641@frink.w3.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To:frobza@yahoo.co.in



MR.FORTUNE ROBINSON
GAUTENG JOHANNESBURG
SOUTH AFRICA
TEL; 27-73-208-0489


INVITATION FOR PARTNERSHIP

ATTN: DIRECTOR/CEO

Dear Sir,

With due respect, trust and humility, I write to you this proposal, which I believe would be of great interest to you. I find your contact while I was doing a private research on the Internet for a reliable and capable foreign partner that will assist my family and I to transfer fund to his personal or private account and for investment purpose. I am Mr. Fortune Robinson the son of Late Mr. Ernest Robinson, who was the "Chairman" of the farmer?s co-operation in Zimbabwe.

it will be necessary to inform you that the {US$13M}Thirteen million united states dollars)intended for pitalization of the investments are presently in the custody of a private security company here in Johannesburg, South Africa which we require to transfer out of South Africa immediately for
the said investment purposes.

You may have heard of the present crisis in Zimbabwe orchestrated by the unprecedented Land use Act of the government of Robert Mugabe in which this government has arbitrarily reclaimed and acquired all farm lands owned by the white farmers in the country.

This has caused a historical displacement of the white folks who are known to be the country's mainfarmers.The ensuing struggles and strife have brought about the killing and imprisonment of thousands of these white farm owners by the ruthless government forces designated to enforce this new order.

My father, in his good will, joined the international community in condemning and speaking out against this uncivilized and bizarre policy of Robert Mugabes government. As a result of my father firm and upright position on this matter, a group of assailants suspected to be government sympathizers attached
and killed my father in cold blood.

Seeing that the entire Robinson's family was in serious threat of extinction, we immediately fled Zimbabwe to South Africa, where we have sojourned ever since as refugee under the United Nations.

Prior however, to my father untimely death he had sensing the rising hostilities, sold some of his farm lands including those of some of his white farmer associates who had transferred ownership of their farm lands to my father to forestall the government acquiring them. My father secretly sent the proceeds {US$13m} Thirteen million United States dollars from sales of the farm lands to South Africa. And deposited same in a metal box with a private security company here in Johannesburg.

We are presently in South Africa as Refugee (Asylum Seekers) We are ready to give you 30% of the total amount for the inconveniences this we cost you and for accepting to assist us, contact me on the above phone and fax number indicating your interest as soon as possible, on receiving of your acceptance, I shall be glad to give you more clarification on the modalities needed for smooth successful completion of this transaction.

It is equally important to state here that considering the nature of this matter, we will required that it is handled most discreetly.

I anticipate your quick response.
Best regard.

Mr. Fortune Robinson 

(For and On behalf of my family)






 



