docno="lists-004-9060318"
received="Sat Dec 20 15:43:03 2003"
isoreceived="20031220204303"
sent="Fri, 5 Dec 2003 11:34:17 GMT"
isosent="20031205113417"
name="aked4_un@123.com"
email="aked4_un@123.com"
subject="URGENT BUSINESS ASSISTANCE"
id="20031220204302.0F5CE13340@dr-nick.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:thompson@localaccess.net



PAUL ADAMS
ATTORNEY TO HALLMARK BANK PLC
HALLMARK BANK PLAZA VICTORIA ISLAND LAGOS
EMAIL:aked4_un@123.com
                                          5/12/2003

Sir

Naturally,this letter will come to you as a surprise,since we have not met,permit me however,I am Barrister PAUL ADAMS. I am contacting you to kindly assit me in the proposition below, which will be of mutual benefit to us both.
 
PROPOSITION.
A salvadorean, MR.Ramirez Vidaurre,66years of age and a very prosperous farmer made a huge bank deposit for investment in the sum of US$18,500,000.=(Eighteen Million Five Hundred thousand US Dollars),he named his wife Mrs.Helga Vidaurre as the NEXT OF KIN. I was called upon as an Accredited Attorney to the bank to sign/endorse documents to this deposit on Mr. Vidaurre behalf.

Unfortunately, Mr&Mrs Vidaurre were killed in the January 14,earthquake that rocked El Salvador, killing thousands of people and 1,200 others were declared missing.

The Bank Management now mandates me (being the lawyer that signed and endorsed the deposit papers for the deceased) to trace the family relatives of the deceased so that the funds will be released to them.I was made to understand that they had no children.

I made several efforts through the El Salvadorean High Commission in lagos to contact any of the deceased family relatives ,but to no avail.

Failure to reach any of the deceased family relatives, the option left for the Bank Management is to declare the deceased account dormant and revert the funds on trading and investment in the interest of the Bank.

Inorder to avoid this development,since it has so far been impossible to trace any of the deceased family relatives,I now seek your permission and assistance to have you stand as a distant relative to the deceased since i have used my position as the bank's attorney create an open space to fill in name of next of kin to the decease so that the fund will be released to you and we can use it for our mutual benefit.

I hope you do understand my concern in this matter,that if we don?t use this opportunity to claim this fund ,since the deceased relatives cannot be traced,the management of the bank will declare the deceased account dormant and revert the fund on trading and investment in the interest of the Bank and already the bank have started trading with this money through our corresponding bank oversea and right now the money will easily be paid to the next of kin through our corresponding bank so with the inclusion of your name as the next of kin in the open space will make the bank to return this money back the decease account.

For your assistance, you will be compensated adequately with (40%) of the total sum,(55%) will be my share,while(5%) will be set aside to cover any incidental expense made both at home and abroad prior to this transaction.

If you are interested in assisting me with this matter ,please,send to me urgently via my email the details bellow:
1.Your full name and complete contact address.
2.Your private telephone and fax number (urgent)
3.Your date of birth (Age)


 Upon receiving the above details from you,I will procure a sworn affidavit of support of your claim sataing your name as the next of kin to the decease,information on how you will reach our corresponding bank oversea will be provided for you  for the release and collection of the fund, which will be within one week of my receiving the above details from you.I will meet with you in your country after the fund have been released to you and also to discuss invesntment potentials.

May I assure you that this transaction is 100 % risk free, as I have taken care of all  necessary modalities  to  enable  a  hitch ? free transaction .  kindly ensure  to  treat  this matter  in  strict  privacy(highly  confidential). I look forward to your urgent response.
  Cheers and God bless.
       Best  regards

BARRISTER PAUL ADAMS          



