docno="lists-061-2373267"
received="Mon Feb  1 08:17:15 1999"
isoreceived="19990201131715"
sent="Mon, 01 Feb 1999 14:17:09 +0100"
isosent="19990201131709"
name="Daniel Dardailler"
email="danield@w3.org"
subject="Re: WAI card"
id="199902011317.OAA20612@www47.inria.fr"
inreplyto="WAI card"
expires="-1"


To: Charles McCathieNevile<charles@w3.org>
cc:w3c-wai-eo@w3.org


My WYSIWYG Framemaker experiments are telling me that we can get
to 9 point font on both sides by cutting out all the rationales.

Note that we could keep the rationales and be at 8 point, which is one
more than the current card pilot.

The issue is: we say what (e.g ImageMap), how (e.g. use MAP), do we
really need to say why?  (e.g to enable mouse-less and sight-less
navigation).

This was discused early on on this list and we decided to include
rationales in as much as space permitted.
Now that we have different layout constraints (we want to increase
font size), we need to reconsider.

The rationales we have so far (waicard4) are:
 Title: ... to everyone, including people with disabilities, handheld...
 ImageMap: ... to enable mouse-less and sight-less navigation. 
 Page Org: ... to facilitate non-visual browsing.
 Link: ... that makes sense when read out of context. 
 Frame: ... to allow access to individual pages. 
 Applet: ... in case active content is inaccessible or unsupported. 

(some other things are between how and why, like "Organize data to
make sense when read row by row", which cannot be easily separated)

Charles has started dropped two of these, on the first side. Note that
this allows us to move to 9 point on the recto, and we could keep 8
points on the verso. This lets us provide a good "first look
readability", while keeping some rationales if we want to.

Anyway, here's what I have down right now:


Title: 

          Quick HTML tips for Accessible Web Site

  I really think it has to 9 point, so we definitively need
  to drop the rationales (see above) 
  It could also be what Charles has used:

           Quick HTML tips to make your site accessible

  but I prefer to mention "Web Site" than "to make".


Pointer:

     See http://www.w3.org/WAI for the complete Guidelines & Techniques

  is way too long for 9 point, I have shorten it to:

     Complete Guidelines at www.w3.org/WAI

  and William to:

     Guidelines & Techniques: http://www.w3.org/WAI

  I think http:// can safely be dropped.
  I prefer to mention "Complete" than "Techniques", but not strongly.


1 Images & Animations 

   Use the alt attribute to describe the function of all visuals. 

  Unrelated to size, Charles proposed to use images instead of visuals.
  Again, this was discussed early on and chosen because it represented 
  not just image of text, icons, but also animations, photographs,
  etc. I prefer to keep visual, but it's really something for the call.


2 Image Maps 
 
   Use client-side MAP and text link for hotspots.

  No rationale anymore. I think it's just fine for this one, the why
  is kind of obvious and "to enable mouse-less and sight-less
  navigation" was kind of too techie anyway. The way it is now, as I
  mentioned in another email, text link is ambiguous but that's in
  fact OK.


3 Multimedia 

   Provide captioning and transcripts of audio, and descriptions of video. 
 
  Unchanged.


4 Page Organization
   rationales need to go.

   Charles proposes:

    Use headings, lists, lang attribute, for structure. Use CSS for
    layout and style. Be consistent

   which is a close fit at 9 point, and I have

    Use headings, lists, lang attribute and consistent structure. Use
    CSS for layout and style.  

   which is a little shorter and is I think better because it's not
   bound to "just" heading, list and lang *for* structure, but open with an
   "*and* consistent structure" which can include fieldset, quote, etc.


Now on the verso side: as I said, we can keep it with rationales at 8
point, but I have made an attempt to shorten for 9 point as well,
while using some of William and Len's comments.


5 Hypertext Links Use  link text that makes sense 
  when read out of context. 
  -- becomes
5 Links  Use meaningfull link text. No "Click Here".
  -- also fit:
         Use text that makes sense read out of context.

6 Graphs & Charts  Provide summary or use longdesc 
  attribute. 
  -- becomes
6 Graphs & Charts  Use summary or longdesc attribute.

7 Scripts, Applets, & Plug-ins  Provide alternative
  representations in case active content is inaccessible 
  or unsupported.  
  -- unchanged

8 Frames  Label each frame with title or name attribute
  to allow access to individual pages.  
  -- becomes
8 Frames  Label each frame with title or name attribute.

9 Tables  Avoid using tables to format columns or 
  navigation bars. Make cell by cell reading of tabular
  data sensible. 
  -- becomes
9 Tables Have data make sense when read cell by cell.  
  Provide a Summary.Avoid using tables for columns.

10 Check your work  Validate the HTML & CSS of your site. 
   Test with images, sound, and animation off. Use evaluation 
   tools to verify accessibility. 
  -- becomes
10 Check your work Validate the HTML. Use evaluation
   tools and textual browser to verify accessibility.  
 

HTML visible at /WAI/EO/waicard6.htm (with pointer to gif file of
preprint, which I also added to waicard5 for comparison)



