docno="lists-059-3369220"
received="Thu Apr 20 14:30:38 2000"
isoreceived="20000420183038"
sent="Thu, 20 Apr 2000 14:30:17 -0400"
isosent="20000420183017"
name="Jan Richards"
email="jan.richards@utoronto.ca"
subject="Long Descs for Techniques Images"
id="38FF4CB9.8C2D4AB2@utoronto.ca"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:"w3c-wai-au@w3.org"<w3c-wai-au@w3.org>

Descriptions for the first 4 dialogs in prompting appendix:

Word2000 Options:
Screen shot of Microsoft Word 2000 options dialog. The property card
tabs are Track Changes, User Information, Compatibility, File Locations,
View, General, Edit, Save and Spelling & Grammar (selected). Under
spelling options, there are seven check boxes: check spelling as you
type (checked), hide spelling errors in this document (unchecked),
always suggest corrections (checked), suggest from main dictionary only
(unchecked), ignore words in UPPERCASE (checked), ignore words with
numbers (checked), and ignore Internet and file addresses (checked).  A
drop-down menu and button for choosing a custom dictionary follows. 
Under grammar options, there are four checkboxes: check grammar as you
type (checked), hide grammatical errors in the document (unchecked),
check grammar with spelling (checked), and show readability statistics
(unchecked). A drop-down menu and button for choosing a writing style
follow.  A button to check the document is the last control on the
property card.  At the bottom of the dialog are OK and Cancel.

Dreamweaver Properties:
Screenshot of the Dreamweaver properties dialog bar is wide and short,
extending across the page. In this case, an image has been selected so,
from left to right, the bar contains: a thumbnail of the image, the size
of the image, and text box controls to change the W(width), H(height),
Src, Link, Align (drop-down menu) and Alt. At the far right edge there
is a question mark button (help) and down arrow button (more
properties).

Tag Editor-IMG:
Screenshot of the Homesite tag editor for IMG. It is a multi-card dialog
with the following tabs: style sheets/accessibility (HTML 4.0), Language
(HTML 4.0), Events (HTML 4.0), IMG tag (selected) and Browser-specific.
The IMG tag card contains text box controls to change: Source, Alt. Text
(with checkbox to include when blank), Name (with checkbox to include
identical NAME and ID), Width, Height, Align (drop-down menu), Hspace,
Vspace, and Border. Below this is an Image Map section with a Use Map
text box and ISMAP checkbox.  Other controls on the dialog (not the
card) include a quote all attributes checkbox, a single quotes on
attributes checkbox and an output on single line checkbox. There is also
help, OK, and Cancel. The Source field of the card has a black asterix
beside it (indicating that it is required). The Alt. Text field has a
red asterix that references to a line of text reading "Note: ALT text is
required only in HTML 4.0 but should always be present for
accessibility.

Tag Editor-INPUT:
Screenshot of the Homesite tag editor for INPUT. It is a multi-card
dialog with the following tabs: Language (HTML 4.0), Events (HTML 4.0),
VTML (Wizards), INPUT tag, HTML 4.0, and style sheets/accessibility
(HTML 4.0) (selected). The Style Sheets tag card contains text box
controls to change Style Sheet properties, including: Class, ID and
Style (with button). It also contains text box controls to change
accessibility features including: access key, tab index (with text
stating that "this attribute is supported only by MSIE 4+ (not valid for
hidden)"), label text (with generate label tag checkbox and text stating
"for a radio button or checkbox its caption (if defined) takes
precedence"). Following this are some notes: If no ID is defined, an
implicit label will be generated. If the LABEL tag is generated, any
access key will be defined on LABEL rather than the field except for a
radio button or checkbox. MSIE 4+ (only) supports LABEL but explicit
labels only - specify an ID! Other controls on the dialog (not the card)
include a quote all attributes checkbox, a single quotes on attributes
checkbox and an output on single line checkbox. There is also help, OK,
and Cancel.

-- 
Jan Richards
jan.richards@utoronto.ca
Access Software Designer
Adaptive Technology Resource Centre
University of Toronto
(416) 946-7060



