docno="lists-081-8977130"
received="Sat Oct 12 23:55:26 2002"
isoreceived="20021013035526"
sent="Sat, 12 Oct 2002 13:37:25 +0200"
isosent="20021012113725"
name="JAMES PETERS"
email="jamesp58@hotmail.com"
subject="URGENT REPLY."
id="20021013035508.E60881409D@w3c2.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:www-zig@w3.org



From The Desk Of 
Dr.James Peters
Bill And Exchange Manager 
Foreign Remittance Dept.
Zenith International Bank 
Lagos-Nigeria. 

First I must solicit your confidence in this 
transaction, this is by virtue of its nature as being 
utterly confidential and top secret. Though I know 
that a transaction of this magnitude will make any one 
apprehensive and worried,this transaction by is very 
nature is in deed one of a rather complex nature and 
it has as its bane the issue of TRUST but I am 
assuring you that 
all will be well at the end of the day. There is no 
doubt that trust conceptually is a conundrum which 
leads its self to deferring interpretation, it is 
not to the extent of empirical of scientific proof We 
have 
decided to contact you due to the urgency of this 
transaction, as we have been reliably informed of your 
discreetness and ability in transaction of this 
nature. 

Let me start by introducing myself properly to you. I 
am DR.James Peters one of the directors with the 
ZENNITH INTERNATIONAL BANK, Lagos. I came to know you 
in my 
Private Search for a Reliable and Reputable Person to 
handle this Confidential Transaction, which involves 
the transfer of Huge sum of Money to a Foreign Account 
requiring Maximum Confidence. 

THE PROPOSITION: 

A Foreigner an Australia, Late Engr. Steve Moore 
(Snr.) an Oil Merchant with the Federal Government of 
Nigeria, until his death a couple of years ago in a 
plane crash banked with us at ZENNITH 
INTERNATIONAL BANK, Lagos and had a closing balance as 
at the end of September, 2000 worth US$35,500,000.00 
(thirty five Million five hundred thousand United 
State Dollars), the bank now expects a next of kin as 
beneficiary. Valuable efforts are being made by the 
ZENNITH INTERNATIONAL BANK to get in touch with any of 
the Moore's family or relatives but to no success. 

It is because of the perceived possibility of not 
being able to locate any of Late Engr. Steve Moore 
(Snr.)' s next kin (He had no wife or children that is 
known to us). The Management under the influence of 
our Chairman and Members of the Board of Directors, 
has made arrangement for the funds to be declared 
"Unclaimed" and subsequently be donated to the trust 
fund for arms and ammunition to further enhance the 
course of War in Africa and the World in General. 

In order to avert this negative development some of my 
trusted colleagues and I now seek your permission to 
have you stand as next of kin to Late Engr. Steve 
Moore (Snr.) so that the fund US$35.5 Million will be 
released and paid into your account as the 
beneficiary's next of kin. All documents and proves 
to enable you get his fund will be carefully worked 
out. We have secure from the probate an order of 
madamus to locate any of deceased beneficiaries, and 
more so we are assuring you that this business is 100% 
Risk Free involvement. Your share stays while the 
rest be for myself and my colleagues for investment 
purpose. According to agreement within both parties. 

As soon as we receive an acknowledgement of receipt 
of this message in acceptance of our mutual business 
proposal, the necessary modalities and disbursement 
ratio to suite both parties are thus: 30% for you a/c 
owner,10% for the expeneses, 60% for i and my 
colleagues. While replying furnish me with your 
private fax and phone numbers for easy 
communication AND YOUR BANK PARTICULARS.Whilst this 
anormalities may well exacerbate your doubt and 
apprehensive about the transaction in view of the fact 
that you area person not physically known to us. I 
must have to advice you that a healthy degree of 
caution be exercised before conclusions are reached by 
your goodself. 

If this proposal is acceptable by you, do not make 
undue advantage of the trust we have bestowed in you. 
Please kindly send your reply to jamesp582002@yahoo.co.uk
Best regards, 
Dr.James Peters 



