docno="lists-085-12594954"
received="Mon Jul 23 11:09:28 2001"
isoreceived="20010723150928"
sent="Mon, 23 Jul 2001 11:09:20 -0400"
isosent="20010723150920"
name="David Poehlman"
email="poehlman1@home.com"
subject="Fw: AOL Looking for Accessibility Testers"
id="000f01c11389$734f2ae0$2cf60141@mtgmry1.md.home.com"
charset="Windows-1252"
inreplyto="AOL Looking for Accessibility Testers"
expires="-1"


To:"User Agent Working group list"<w3c-wai-ua@w3.org>


America Online 6.0, released in October 2000, marked a number of
significant
milestones in AOL's efforts to make our service accessible to all users.
We
have spent the last several months building upon these accessibility
features
and are now ready to beta test these improvements using AOL's most
super-charged testing, a "Focused Beta Test."

The Focused Beta Test for accessibility is a call to Assistive
Technology
users to report on their AOL experience using Assistive Technologies
such as
screen readers, screen magnifiers, voice recognition, speech output, and
alternatives to the standard keyboards and mouses.

To ensure the success of this effort, AOL would like to invite people
who
use
Assistive Technologies in their day-to-day computer use to be a part of
this
evaluation.  Individuals with this experience will play an important
role in
providing feedback to AOL Product Developers so we can continue toward
our
mission of building a more accessible AOL.

Here's how you (or any Assistive Technology user) can participate:

To become a Beta Tester you must first have an AOL account.  If you are
not
an AOL member, you may join using one of our free AOL 6.0 CDs, which may
offer you up to 700 free hours of usage. You can call to order a CD at
1-800-827-6364 or download the software at www.aol.com. You are under no
obligation to continue with the AOL service at the end of your trial
period,
but must contact us if you wish to cancel in the future.

-- Once logged online to the AOL service, visit AOL Keyword: Beta to
register.  Once at the Beta area, select the America Online 7.0 Beta
link
and
click the "Focus Tests" button to find the link to the "Accessibility
Focus
Test."  Fill out the forms as requested. (Note for screen reader users:
use
the Tab key to navigate all beta application screens and use the
Spacebar
instead of the Enter key to open windows.)

-- You will be asked to review and sign AOL's non-disclosure form and to
provide information on the type(s) of Assistive technology you use to
access
the AOL service. Although you will have access to the Beta area
immediately
upon completing the application, please allow us one business day to
process
the application.

--- As an AOL Beta Tester you will receive instructions weekly regarding
specific products you can choose to test. You will be asked to provide
feedback about the products functionality, and to fill out a bug report
if
you find something does not work.  (Note to JAWS and Window Eyes users:
to
most effectively use AOL with your screen reader, you will need to copy
AOL
screenreader files into your screenreader's directory. Information on
how to
do this is available in the "Accessibility Focus Test" area at AOL
Keyword:
Beta.)

We are looking for testers for the Accessibility Focus Test who use
Assistive
Technology in their day-to-day computer use.  If you don't have this
experience, but have any family members or friends who are AOL members
and
use Assistive Technology, tell them about the new tests available at AOL
Keyword: Beta.

AOL is committed to continuing to build more accessibility into America
Online and its products and service, and we thank you for your help and
support in this endeavor.



