docno="lists-018-7082409"
received="Mon Dec  8 04:34:38 2003"
isoreceived="20031208093438"
sent="Mon, 8 Dec 2003 09:34:15 0000 "
isosent="20031208093415"
name="David.Pawson@rnib.org.uk"
email="David.Pawson@rnib.org.uk"
subject="RE: [DM] white space WG response wanted."
id="9B66BBD37D5DD411B8CE00508B69700F049E20C4@pborolocal.rnib.org.uk"
charset="iso-88591"
inreplyto="[DM] white space WG response wanted."
expires="1"


To:public-qt-comments@w3.org


Could the WG provide an answer to this comment please.

M Rys appears to want the MS view to be seen as a WG perspective
from the language of his reply.

regards DaveP.
AC RNIB.



    
    > We have seen the data model generation as an application that 
    > understands xml:space="default" and "preserve" and have 
    furthermore 
    > decided that it is up to the upper-specs and 
    implementation to define 
    > what the "default" behaviour is.
    
    "We" here being Microsoft? Certainly that seems to be the 
    only explanation of why (uniquely) the microsoft 
    implementations are inconsistent with every other 
    implementation (and all but the most generous reading of 
    the XSLT1 spec).
    (I'm really not trying to take part in that common and 
    often enjoyable sport of Microsoft bashing here, I really 
    like msxsl as an implementation and use it a lot (along 
    with saxon and xalan) however you can't help but single 
    them out on this issue as the behaviour is so unique to 
    those implementations. It really is a FAQ on xsl-list:
    some user posts with some inexplicable white space or node 
    counting problem, usually they don't say which 
    implementation they are using but the description of the 
    problem allows those of us answering to identify that they 
    are using msxml. A version 2 of a language seems an ideal 
    time to tighten up the language to close this loophole that 
    allows this incompatible behaviour.
    
    
    > I find this logical and consistent. If you want to get 
    the upper-specs 
    > to mandate options to provide both skip and preserve as 
    options, then 
    > please indicate where and how. We will certainly look at this.
    
    XSLT1 (and 2) have this as a user option already, 
    xsl:strip-space and xsl:preserve-space.
    
    Unfortutely the option is a no op if the default behaviour 
    of the parser is (contrary to the XML specification) to 
    remove the spaces from your document before XSLT starts, so 
    before the user option to preserve space can work.
    
    Building an instance of the data model with all inter-word 
    spaces removed is in any case _allowed_ by the "application 
    and build data models how it likes" clause I just want to 
    ensure that the application can not do that as a default 
    behaviour while claiming to input an XML document.
    
    David
    
    

- 
DISCLAIMER: 

NOTICE: The information contained in this email and any attachments is 
confidential and may be privileged. If you are not the intended 
recipient you should not use, disclose, distribute or copy any of the 
content of it or of any attachment; you are requested to notify the 
sender immediately of your receipt of the email and then to delete it 
and any attachments from your system. 

RNIB endeavours to ensure that emails and any attachments generated by 
its staff are free from viruses or other contaminants. However, it 
cannot accept any responsibility for any  such which are transmitted.
We therefore recommend you scan all attachments. 

Please note that the statements and views expressed in this email and 
any attachments are those of the author and do not necessarily represent 
those of RNIB. 

RNIB Registered Charity Number: 226227 

Website: http://www.rnib.org.uk 



