docno="lists-005-3163212"
received="Fri Mar 26 06:57:24 2004"
isoreceived="20040326115724"
sent="Fri, 26 Mar 2004 12:53:21 +0100"
isosent="20040326115321"
name="godferyusman"
email="godferyusman@telstra.com"
subject="Request For Foreign partner"
id="38083395fd.395fd38083@email.bigpond.com"
charset="windows-1252"
expires="-1"


To: undisclosed-recipients:;



From the Desk of:
MR.GODFERY USMAN.
BILLS AND EXCHANGE
ACCOUNT DEPARTMENT 
MERITH INTL. BANK.
VICTORIA ISLAND-LAGOS. 
REPLY EMAIL TO:(info_godferyaccount@mytolmail.com)
TELEPHONE NUMBER:234-8046126050

                           Request For Foreign partner  

The Managing Director/CEO.

Dear friend,

I sincerely write to seek your co-operation and trust to enable my colleagues and I carry out an urgent business opportunity in my department.

I work with the Merith Intl.Bank currently I am the senior manager of bills and exchange at the foreign remittance department of my bank. I was the account officer to one Mr. Butch.R.Miguel who died along with his family on the 8th of November 1999 in an ADC Boeing 727 plane crash at Egirin River. All 141 passengers on board were feared dead.  He left in his domiciliary account the total sum of $15.5million FiFteen million five hundred thousand USA Dollars. Since the management got the information of his death we have been expecting any of his relation or his next of kin to come up and claim his money. Unfortunately from the day of his death till the time of this letter none of his relation or friends has come up for the claim. The banking and financial law of Merith Intl.Bank stipulates that if such fund remained unclaimed after a period of four (4) it will be transferred into the bank treasury as unclaimed bill.

 On this discovery, I and two other senior staffs now decided to do business with you and release the money to you as the next of kin to Butch.R.Miguel for safety and subsequent disbursement. I will soon proceed for my retirement leave this year, and I personally do not want this fund to be transferred into the bank treasury as unclaimed bill. That is why I wanted the fund to be move out of the bank before I proceed on my retirement. The need for a foreigner as next of kin in this project is occasioned by the fact that the customer Mr. Butch.R.Miguel was a foreigner and a Nigerian cannot stand as his next of kin or heir. We have agreed that 30% of the Fund would be for you as foreign partner thereafter my colleague and I will visit your country for disbursement according to the percentages indicated. To enable the immediate transfer of the fund into your nominated account,you will first apply to the bank as the next of kin of the deceased,indicating your bank account number 
and location where in the money will be remitted. Upon receipt of your acknowledgement indicating your interest,I will send to you the text of the application that you will send to the Merith Intl.Bank authority for an approval to submit your claims. Send your reply through my direct and private email address.(info_godferyaccount@mytolmail.com)indicates your direct Fax and telephone number for effective communication that this transaction needs. Do not reply through the Merith Intl.Bank email address because it?s belonged to the senior staffs for public use. 

Please note that you are not to appear in person, as every thing regarding this project will be strictly on documentations and every banking documents needed for this transaction will be taken care of by my self.

Looking forward to your urgent response.

Yours Faithfully,

MR.GODFERY USMAN.
MERITH INTL. BANK. 













                                                                      



