docno="lists-043-8736201"
received="Fri Feb 21 19:58:28 2003"
isoreceived="20030222005828"
sent="Fri, 21 Feb 2003 19:39:08 -0600 (CST)"
isosent="20030222013908"
name="info@lelpeto.com"
email="info@lelpeto.com"
subject="&quot;Lel Bruce Peto&quot; recommended 2000 oil chronology reading.."
id="25623.63.164.145.33.1045877948.squirrel@www.lelpeto.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-formal-assertion-testbed@w3.org


"Lel Bruce Peto" recommended 2000 oil chronology reading..


 Oil & Gas Chronology :  Year 2000, partial.

 
 
January 2000

January 1 Energy companies and countries around the world report that they 
have passed into the year 2000 without significant problems from the "Y2K 
Bug." There was concern that the inability of some computers and embedded 
control systems to recognize the year 2000 could create serious problems. 
(DJ, WP)

January 6 Texaco announces that it has completed testing of the Agbami-2 
well off the coast of Nigeria. The company states that the new field has 
crude oil reserves estimated at more than one billion barrels. (DJ, WSJ)

January 7 Statoil shuts in 390,000 barrels per day of crude oil production 
in response to severe weather in the North Sea. Including earlier moves by 
Norsk Hydro, Statoil, and Shell, a total of 1.27 million barrels per day 
of North Sea crude oil production is shut in due to weather. (DJ)

January 13 The National Research Council, a body of the National Academy 
of Sciences, releases a report confirming that the rise in global 
temperatures is "undoubtedly real," deflating a key argument used by 
skeptics of global warming. The report does not directly address the 
causes of the warming trend. (WP, LAT, WSJ)

January 13 The Environmental Protection Agency announces a fine of $30 
million against refiner Koch Industries as part of a settlement of charges 
that the company contaminated lakes and streams with petroleum products 
which leaked from pipelines. (DJ)

January 13 Indonesian President Abderrahman Wahid appoints a high level 
panel to oversee the restructuring of the state-owned oil company 
Pertamina and choose a new senior management team for the firm. (DJ, WSJ) 

January 14 Chevron announces that it has agreed to pay $95 million to 
settle charges that it underpaid royalties to the federal government for 
oil produced on federal lands. The company says the move is not an 
admission of wrongdoing. (WSJ)

January 16 Takashi Fukuya, Japan's Minister of International Trade and 
Industry, meets with Saudi Arabia's Petroleum Minister Ali al-Naimi in an 
attempt to reach an agreement on the renewal of Japanese firm Arabian Oil 
Company's concession for crude oil production in the Saudi sector of the 
Neutral Zone. The ministers reportedly failed to reach agreement on an 
extension. (DJ)

January 19 China discovers a large natural gas deposit in the Tarim Basin 
in the Xinjiang region of Western China. The country is considering the 
construction of a gas pipeline from the region to more heavily populated 
areas along the Pacific coast. (DJ)

January 22 Iraq reaches an agreement on the continuation of oil supplies 
to Jordan. Under the agreement, Iraq will give Jordan $300 million worth 
of crude oil in 2000 free of charge, and Jordan will pay a maximum of $19 
per barrel for any additional volumes imported. (DJ)

January 25 Spot prices for number two heating oil close at $1.359 per 
gallon, after rising rapidly from $0.687 per gallon at the beginning of 
January 2000. The rapid rise takes place as winter storms hit the 
northeastern United States, increasing short term demand for heating oil. 
The spot price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil closes at $30.28 per 
barrel. (DJ)

January 26 The United Nations Security Council reaches agreement on the 
appointment of Hans Blix of Sweden, the former head of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), to lead the new United Nations weapons 
inspection organization for Iraq. Iraq has indicated that it does not 
intend to accept the new Security Council resolution. (DJ)

January 27 Senator Charles Schumer meets with Secretary of Energy Bill 
Richardson to press for a sale of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve 
(SPR) in response to high oil prices. In particular, northeastern members 
of Congress have been concerned by the sharp rise in prices for heating 
oil in late January 2000 due to cold temperatures on the East Coast of the 
United States. (DJ)

January 27 The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) decides to postpone a 
scheduled decision on whether to allow the proposed merger between BP 
Amoco and Atlantic Richfield, after the companies involved made a new 
offer to divest themselves of further assets. (NYT)

January 27 Azerbaijan experiences a short-term domestic petroleum products 
shortage, which cripples the country's oil fired power plants. The 
government of Azerbaijan temporarily restricts oil shipments to the 
Russian port of Novorossisk and orders the import of a shipment of oil 
from neighboring Turkmenistan. (DJ)

January 28 ExxonMobil's Australian unit, Mobil Oil Australia Limited, 
announces a compensation package to cover equipment damage and direct 
business losses arising from contaminated aircraft fuels. Around 5,000 
small aircraft have been grounded in Australia due to concerns that 
engines could clog after consuming the fuels. Mobil has said the 
contamination resulted from a mistake in the production process, but has 
not admitted liability for financial losses incurred by its clients. (DJ)

 

February 2000

February 2 The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) acts to block the proposed 
merger between BP Amoco and Atlantic Richfield, saying the merger would 
unduly restrict competition along the West coast of the United States. 
(WSJ, WP)

February 3 The United States Navy seizes the Russian tanker Volgoneft-147 
in the Persian Gulf. The vessel is transporting a cargo of smuggled Iraqi 
gasoil in violation of United Nations sanctions against Iraq. (NYT, WP) 

February 8 Russia's second largest oil company, Yukos Oil, announces an 
agreement with state oil pipeline company Transneft to build a $1.7 
billion oil pipeline from Siberia to China. The pipeline would run from 
Angarsk in Siberia to Beijing. (WSJ) 

February 11 Occidental Petroleum agrees to buy Altura Energy, the onshore 
U.S. oil exploration joint venture between BP Amoco and Shell, for $3.5 
billion. Altura produces about 110,000 barrels per day of crude oil, 
mostly in West Texas and New Mexico. (LAT)

February 14 The price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil closes on the 
New York Mercantile Exchange at $30.30 per barrel, the highest price (in 
nominal terms) since the Gulf War in 1991. (WSJ)

February 16 The United States announces sanctions against the Greater Nile 
Petroleum Operating Company (GNPOC), which is developing oilfields in 
Sudan. The sanctions prohibit American firms and individuals from doing 
business with GNPOC, but do not cover the foreign parent companies of 
GNPOC, which include China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC), 
Petronas, and Talisman Energy. (NYT)

February 18 Iranian voters go to the polls to elect members of parliament. 
The election results in a landslide victory for reformist candidates 
allied with Iranian President Mohammed Khatami. (DJ

February 21 General Electric announces a breakthrough in the design of 
natural gas power generating plants, using steam instead of air to cool 
turbine blades. According to the company, the new design will use about 5 
percent less natural gas per unit of power generated than the best 
existing technologies. (WSJ)

February 24 BP Amoco announces that it plans to make $2.5 billion in 
investments in the development of natural gas reserves at the In Salah 
field in Algeria. Gas deliveries to Europe from the field are expected to 
start in 2003. (WSJ)

February 24 Saudi Arabia announces that it intends to invite 
representatives of companies which have submitted bids for natural gas and 
petrochemical investment in the country to talks which will be held in 
late March 2000, shortly after the end of the Muslim haj pilgrimage 
season. (DJ)

February 26 Secretary of Energy Bill Richardson meets with Saudi Arabian 
Petroleum Minister Ali Naimi in Riyadh to discuss the recent rise in crude 
oil prices. The meeting is part of an overseas tour which includes stops 
in Mexico, Norway, Egypt, Israel, Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait. In a joint 
statement, Naimi pledged to "continue to review oil supply and demand 
levels to ensure market stability, prevent oil price volitility, and avoid 
harming the world economy." (DJ)

February 27 BP Amoco and Atlantic Richfield hold talks with the Federal 
Trade Commission (FTC) on their proposed merger, which the FTC has filed 
suit in a federal court to block. The two companies have reportedly 
offered major concessions, including a much larger sale of Alaskan North 
Slope production assets. (WSJ)

February 27 Columbia Energy agrees to be acquired by NiSource, ending an 
eight month long takeover battle. The deal is valued at $6 billion, will 
make NiSource the largest natural gas company east of the Rocky Mountains. 
(WSJ)

February 28 Arabian Oil Company, the Japanese firm which produces crude 
oil in the Neutral Zone of Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, announces the 
expiration of its concession for production in the Saudi half of the Zone. 
The firm's concession for the Kuwaiti portion of the Neutral Zone expires 
in 2003. (DJ)



