docno="lists-004-12398591"
received="Wed Dec 31 04:46:47 2003"
isoreceived="20031231094647"
sent="Sun, 21 Jan 2001 22:35:44 -0800"
isosent="20010122063544"
name="Barrister Taofeq Ibrahim"
email="taofeq_ibrahim@fsmail.net"
subject="PRIVATE MAIL."
id="20031231094601.F0D6E140F9@w3c2.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



    
 
   
 
   
From:  Barrister  Taofeq Ibrahim  "Esq".
          Taofeq Ibrahim & Co.,
          Attorney(s)/Legal Practitioner(s),
          Nigeria.

My dear friend,

Compliments of the season. Grace, peace and love
from this part of the Atlantic to you.I hope my
letter does not cause you too much inconvenience.

I write  you in good faith based on the contact
address  I got during a browse on the internet
while trying to seek for a trustworthy foreing partner 
who can assist us lay claims as beneficiary to the sum
of  $75,000,000 (seventy five million dollars).
Please excuse my intrussion into your private life.

I am Barrister  Taofeq Ibrahim, I represent Mohammed
Abacha, son of the late gen. Sani Abacha, who was the
former military head of state in Nigeria, He died in
1998. 
Since his death, the family has been loosing so
much money due to vindictive government officials
who are bent on prosecuting the family over alleged 
misappropriation and embezlement of government funds
as well as violation of fundamental human rights,
during the ex-president's reign in office as president of the
federal republic of Nigeria. 

Based on this therefore, the family has asked me to
seek for a foreign partner who can work with us as to transfer
the total sum of US$75,000,000.00 ( seventy five  
million united states dollars ), presently in their
possession.This money was of course, acquired by the
late president and is now kept secretly by the family.

The Swiss government has already frozen all the
accounts of the family in Switzerland, and some other
countries would soon follow to do the same. 

This bid by the incumbent government of  general Olusegun
Obasanjo to investigate in details & bring the family
to book,has made it necessary that we seek your kind 
assistance in receiving this money and  investing 
it on behalf of my client and family.

This must be a joint venture transaction and we must
all work together. since this money is still cash,
extra security measures have been taken to protect it
from theft or seizure, pending when agreement  is
reached on when and how to transfer it into any of
your nominated bank account(s). 

I have personally worked out all modalities for the peaceful 
conclusion of this transaction.
The transaction definitely would be handled in phases and 
the first phase will involve the transfer of US$25,000,000.00
(twenty five million united states dollars ).

My client is willing to give you a reasonable
percentage of this money as soon as the transaction is
concluded. 
I will, however, based on the fact that
you are willing to work with us ensure that all
contentious issues are discussed before the
commencement of this transaction. 

You may also discuss your percentage before we start 
to work. Upon your prompt responce to assist us in
this regard, I will give you all necessary details as to
where the funds are being currently maintained and
also how we intend to carry out the whole transaction.
Please, do not entertain any fear, as all necessary
modalities for a successful tranfer  are  already being put
in place, and I assure you of a 100% hitch free transaction.
 
Please, this transaction requires absolute
confidentiality and you would be expected to treat it
as such until the funds are successfully transfered
into your nominated bank account.

Please, you will also ignore this letter and respect
our trust in you by not exposing this transaction,
even if you are not interested.

Kindly send me your personal phone and fax number(s)
for a better communication if you agree to work with us.

Kindly communicate your acceptance of this proposal to the 
above email address or simply send your responce to my very
confidential email address: taofeqibrahim@fsmail.net after
which we discuss the modalities for seeing this transaction 
through.

I look forward to working with you. 
God bless you and family. 


Best regards,

Barrister Taofeq Ibrahim "Esq"



