docno="lists-004-11475869"
received="Sun Dec 28 10:51:24 2003"
isoreceived="20031228155124"
sent="Sun, 28 Dec 2003 16:54:21 +0100"
isosent="20031228155421"
name="TUNDE ADAMS"
email="a.tunde@caramail.com"
subject="Dear Friend."
id="20031228155118.C32C8139A1@dr-nick.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



TUNDE ADAMS
Director, Project Implementation,
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation,
Falomo Office Complex,
Ikoyi - Lagos 
BUSINESS PROPOSAL.
I regret this informal mode of contact to your
esteemed
personality , it was initiated out of my outright
desire to enter into a mutual business relationship
with you.
I obtained your contact from a reliable source on a
business listing information service during my search
for a investment opportunities in your country and
after due consultations with my opinion adviser, I
decided to contact you believing that by the grace of 
the Almighty God, you will accept me to be you
partner in a Business Venture. 
I have decided to seek a confidential co-operation
with you in the execution of a the deal described
hereunder for the benefit of all parties . Within
the Ministry of Petroleum Resources where I work as a
Director, Project Implementation and with the
cooperation of three other top officials we have in
our possession as overdue payment bills totalling
Twenty Four Million, Five Hundred Thousand U. S.
Dollars (US$24,500,000.00) which we want to transfer
abroad with
assistance and co-operation of a foreign
company/individual to receive
the said fund on our behalf or a reliable foreign
non-company account to receive such funds. Moreso, we
are handicapped in the circumstances as the Nigerian
Civil Service Code of Conduct does not allow us to
operate
offshore account hence your importance in the whole
transaction.
The amount represents the balance of the total
contract value executed on behalf of my Ministry by a
foreign contracting firm which we the officials
over-invoiced deliberately. Though the actual contract
cost
have been paid to the original contractor, leaving the
balance in the tune of the said amount which we have
in principles gotten approval to remit by Telegraphic
Transfer (T.T) to foreign bank account .we have
include our bills for approvals with the co-operation
of some officials from the Federal Ministry of Finance
and the Central Bank ofNigeria (CBN)
We are seeking your assistance in providing a vital
account or any virgin bank account into which we can
remit this money by acting as our main partner and
trustee. This we can do by swapping of account and
changing of beneficiary and other forms of
documentation upon application
for claim to reflect the payment and approvals to be
secured on behalf of you. 
This processes being pre-arranged with the
principal trustee of the original contractor and with
the consent of the original contractor. I have the
authority of my partners involved to propose that
should you be willing to assist us in the transaction
your share of the sum will be 30% of the US$24.5
million, 60% for us and 10% for taxation and
miscellaneous expenses.
The business itself is 100% safe on your part .
Also your area of specialization is not a hindrance to
the successful execution of this transaction.
Endeavor to e-mail me to know your position and
include your confidential telephone and fax numbers.
Thanks for your cooperation.
Yours faithfully,
TUNDE ADAMS.



