docno="lists-004-4366499"
received="Fri Sep 12 23:47:14 2003"
isoreceived="20030913034714"
sent="Fri, 12 Sep 2003 16:35:51 -0700"
isosent="20030912233551"
name="Sonny Laye"
email="sonnylaye@indiatimes.com"
subject="GOODDAY"
id="20030913034711.AE8C1133BC@dr-nick.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



Goodday,

Please I am Master Sonny Laye, the only son of late chief Joseph Alfred Laye from 

Sierra Leone.I know that my message will come to you as a surprise to you but 

however, I am writing you in absolute confidence primarily to seek your 

assistance to transfer our cash of nine million eight hundred thousand dollars 

($9,800,000) now in the custody of a BANK here in Abidjan to your private 

account pending our arrival to your country.

SOURCE OF THE MONEY 

My late father, chief Joseph Alfred Laye , a native of mende district in the 

Northern province of Sierra Leone, was the general Manager of Sierra Leone 

mining co-operation (S.L.M.C.) Freetown. According to my father. This money was


the income acquired from mining co-operation's over draft and minor sales. 

Before the peak of the civil war between the rebels forces of major Paul Koroma


and the combined forces of ECOMOG peace keeping operation that almost destroyed


My country, following the forceful removal from power of the Civilian Elected 

President Ahmed Tejan Kabbah by the rebels. My father had already made 

arrangement for his family, my mother, my little sister and myself to be 

evacuated to Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire with our personal effects. 


My father deposited the fund in the BANK until after the war when he will join 

us. During the war in my country, and following the indiscriminate looting of

public and Government properties by the rebel forces, the sierra Leone mining 

coop. Was one of the targets looted and destroyed. My father including other top


Government functionaries Were attacked and killed by the rebels in November 1999


because of his relationship with the civilian Government of Ahmed Tejan Kabbah.


As a result of my

father death, and with the news of my uncles involvement in air crash in 

January, dashed

our hope of survival. The untimely deaths caused my mothers heart failure and 

other related complications of which she later died in the hospital After we 

must have spent a lot of money on her.

Now my 16-year-old sister and myself are alone in this strange country suffering


without any care or help. Without any relation, we are now like refugees and 

orphans. Our only hope now is in this fund which our father deposited in the 

BANK To this effect, I humbly solicit your assistance in the followings ways. To


assist me claim this fund from the BANK as co-beneficiary. To transfer this 

money in your name to your country.

To make a good arrangement for a joint business investment on our behalf in your


country and you being the caretaker. To secure a college for my little sister 

and my self

in your country to further our education. And to make arrangement for our travel


to meet you face to face in your country after you have transferred this fund. 

Most importantly. The whole documents issued after deposit are in my custody. 

For your assistance, I

beg to concede 20% of this money to you for your efforts and assistance.

Please include your phone/fax number on reply.


Thanks and God bless.

Best regards,

SonnyLaye and Sister.



