docno="lists-065-14969382"
received="Thu Oct 15 12:41:45 1998"
isoreceived="19981015164145"
sent="Thu, 15 Oct 1998 12:32:24 -0400"
isosent="19981015163224"
name="Dot Smith"
email="yicim@worldnet.att.net"
subject="The DISH Volume 1 Issue 40"
id="01BDF838.D966EC60.yicim@worldnet.att.net"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:"'viewer@c-span.org'"<viewer@c-span.org>

Dot's Information Service Hotline
Visit The DISH online at http://home.att.net/~yicim
"Unbossed and unbought news and information you can use"
Volume 1 Issue 40     Dedicated to the Dialogue on Race  10/16/98

Privacy: A First Amendment Right
by John Burl Smith
 
   
The most fundamental right granted all Americans by the First Amendment is 
"the right to be secure in one's home and in one's person." Privacy is 
viewed as synonymous with freedom of expression. This concept cloaks every 
citizen in a shield beyond which government shall not intrude. This 
principle became constitutional bedrock, because the framers lived under an 
oppressive colonial system. As subjects, they suffered under the tyrannical 
power of agents acting in the name of the king. Unrestrained, these agents 
entered citizens' homes without cause, and  searched their person on 
demand. The founding fathers knew the awesome power of government in the 
hands of authoritarian partisans. They sought to protect powerless citizens 
against such an official onslaught. Counterbalancing this threat, the First 
Amendment enshrines personal freedom and private acts as basic rights no 
citizen can be deprived before  facing the bar of justice.
The First Amendment gives a citizen the right to lie about private 
personal matters into which the government is prohibited from entering 
without probable cause. That is to say, some crime must be directly related 
to the private behavior. In the past, this right has been taken from some 
citizens, i.e.,  African Americans, native Americans, Jewish Americans, 
Japanese Americans and citizens called before Senator Joseph McCarthy's 
Government Operations Committee, Subcommittee on Investigations. A 
Republican from Wisconsin, "Tail-gunner" Joe McCarthy made witch-hunting a 
national sport. McCarthy and his chief henchmen, Roy Cohn and G. David 
Schine, terrorized Americans with unbridled investigatory power. Riding 
roughshod, their tyrannical reign skewed the scales of justice until mere 
association was sufficient to be burned at McCarthy's stake. (For the 
complete text visit http://home.att.net/~yicim)

Intuit's Weekly Vibe

Chocolate City by Yohannes Sharriff Smith

1798...Fresh Mandingo traded, slaving in the 13th colony.
Just seventeen, dreams crushed by the silent war,
Helicopters and swat teams.
In the SWATs, it's by any means, but ends ain't meeting.
Plenty of brothers and sisters surviving on not enough
But its okay long as the police get their piece of the action.
It's the first of the month and the folks steadily trapping.
In the trap hot shit is steadily happening,
Girls laughing; fellas rapping on the corner...
Sweating bullets in this Southern sauna
Clapping guns close the caption.  Is he a gonna?
Well the trauma unit got your number (For the complete poem, visit 
http://home.att.net/~yicim)

DISH-ing it up Hot!

On Spinning SAT Scores by Dot Smith
The DISH analyzed DeKalb County School System's tests scores published in 
the local media and verified by Dr. Vivian McMillan, Assistant Supervisor 
of Testing.
DeKalb officials claim the data support a one point rise in the system 
average SAT score.   To the contrary, Fig. 1 offers a more reasonable 
scenario dictated by  this data, i.e., a more than three point decline.  A 
point  rise for the system is an anomaly when the changes in the school 
averages took a 64- point dip; the system trend is definitely down. 
 Moreover, the 1997 and 1998 median school averages of 876 and 894 are 
significantly lower than the school system's 926 and 927 re-centered scores 
for the two years.  Furthermore, twelve or 63% of the system's nineteen 
schools in 1997 have averages less than or equal to 911, The DISH estimated 
system mean, given these scores.  In 1998, eleven or 61% of the system's 
eighteen schools had averages less than 908.  More significant, thirteen or 
72% of the schools that year had averages less than the system's 927. (For 
the complete poem, visithttp://home.att.net/~yicim


Mailbox: Email, Faxes & Phone Calls

"Not only does the baldhead symbolize impotency, imagine how cold those 
noggins will be come winter.  Thanks sister for pointing out what we are 
doing to ourselves unconsciously.  Keep DISHing it up hot momma!" Email - 
 MarkZ@worldnet

Grandparents' Tea

On September 30th, Clifton Elementary School held its annual Grandparents 
Tea.  Since 1991, this event has grown from a handful of grandparents to a 
sizeable gathering that moved from being held in the media center to the 
school's much larger cafeteria.  According to the school's principal, Tracy 
Moore, the event gives grandparents an excellent opportunity to visit the 
school, spend some time with a grandchild(ren) and discover ways in which 
grandparents can participate in educating their grand kids.  She encouraged 
grandparents to read to their grandchildren or spend time listening to them 
read the paper or a book.  Sensitive to the problem of illiteracy among 
older Americans, especially African Americans, Ms. Moore threw open 
Clifton's doors to grandparents who wish to improve their reading skills. 
 (For the complete poem, visit The DISH at http://home.att.net/~yicim)







application/ms-tnef attachment: stored




