docno="lists-016-14040468"
received="Fri Mar 19 17:15:01 2004"
isoreceived="20040319221501"
sent="Fri, 19 Mar 2004 14:39:30 0800"
isosent="20040319223930"
name="A. Vine"
email="andrea.vine@Sun.COM"
subject="USD Section 6.7 Regimes"
id="405B76A2.6090901@sun.com"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To: I18n WSTF<public-i18n-ws@w3.org>



Notes:  Scenario A is big and ugly.  It might make more sense to cut it down to 
one of the sub-services.  I'm not sure if Scenarios B & C are what we're after. 
  I was trying to think of a legal example, and most seem too complex.

6.7 Regimes

6.7.1 Modeling Tax, Customs, Legal, and other Cross-Border and Cultural 
Considerations

Tax, customs, legal, and similar matters are usually country-specific.  However, 
much of the types of processing involved are the same.  For example, many tax 
calculations take a percentage or set of percentages of a given amount.  A set 
of Web services can work together to provide information for many countries, 
avoiding code and process duplication.

There is more information needed in these types of processes than just the 
country identifier.  Language information is crucial for legal documents, and 
important for other regime-type operations as well.  For tax calculations, the 
currency of the incoming values as well as the currency of the result must be 
specified.  Other cross-border services will likely require other types of 
information, such as address formats or some sort of legal status indicator.

Scenario A:  Web service A takes in the value of a sale, the currency used in 
the sale and an optional currency preferred for the tax value, a language 
parameter, the name of the city, the province, state, county, and/or 
principality, and the country name.  Service A then calls a set of services, 
translating names into identifiers.  Service B takes in a city id, a monetary 
value, and a currency, then calculates city sales tax based on current tax 
tables it retrieves from other services; it returns the tax amount in the same 
currency.  Service C performs a similar function for taxes at the provincial, 
state, county, and principality level.  It returns one or more values with tags 
as to which tax the value represents.  Likewise, Service D takes the country 
name and returns a series of values with tags.  Service A then takes the 
returned values, converts them into the preferred currency (if provided), and 
returns the values with identifying tags and the currency.

Scenario B:  An application provides ordering capabilities for a number of 
products, via a detailed choreography of Web services.  The products are known 
and categorized.  Web service X takes the country id of origin of the product, 
the country id of the potential buyer, and the product category.  It looks up 
the product category in a database and and determines whether it is legal to 
sell and/or to ship the product to the buyer.

Scenario C:  Web service M takes a country id, looks it up in a database, and 
return the driving rules for that country.

-- 
I have always wished that my computer would be as easy to use as my telephone. 
My wish has come true. I no longer know how to use my telephone.
-Bjarne Stroustrup, designer of C++ programming language (1950- )



