docno="lists-080-14556617"
received="Mon Feb  9 09:39:08 2004"
isoreceived="20040209143908"
sent="Mon, 9 Feb 2004 09:39:03 -0500"
isosent="20040209143903"
name="David Poehlman"
email="poehlman1@comcast.net"
subject="special:Fw: ACB Radio, Looking toward the future"
id="006001c3ef1a$77043b20$6401a8c0@handsontech"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:"wai-ig list"<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>


Ok,

This might be a bit of a stretch, but I've been thinking that for some of
those out there who like to teach, perhaps this might be a platform to do it
or something else that might be benefitial to accessibility.

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Dave Williams" <dave@acbradio.org>
To: "Announce@Acbradio. Org" <announce@acbradio.org>
Sent: Monday, February 09, 2004 3:22 AM
Subject: ACB Radio, Looking toward the future


Dear Friends,

Apologies if you have received this message more than once.

Now that a permanent full-time ACB Radio Director has been appointed, this
is the time for us to put our collective best foot forward and think about
the long-term future of ACB Radio.

While the basic resources needed for ACB Radio are generously provided by
the American Council of the Blind, I find it incredible that there are
literally thousands of ACB members who throughout ACB Radio's history have
had little involvement with ACB Radio.  It is my hope that in the future,
ACB affiliates can use ACB Radio as a platform to share their activities
with a wider audience and that an increasing number of the ACB's members can
be heard on ACB Radio.

It is important to also recognise that many of ACB Radio's volunteers and
listeners have little or no involvement with the council, coming as they do
from a much wider community.  It is my hope that ACB Radio can continue to
welcome people from all backgrounds and persuasions.  ACB Radio provides
unique opportunities for blind people around the world to: practice,
develop, exhibit and share a wide range of skills.  ACB Radio offers a
unique place where blind people can inform and entertain, not only each
other, but anyone with an interest in our community.

Over the next few weeks I intend to conduct a wide scale review of the full
range of ACB Radio web email and streaming services.  We are seeking your
ideas suggestions comments and recommendations for ACB Radio's future.
Quite obviously we will not be able to do everything on everyone's wish
lists right away, but we will read and seriously consider every suggestion
before drawing up a mission statement and list of priorities.  Most
importantly, are there areas where you would like to become more involved?
Would you like to help out with the web site or maybe record an item or even
host your own show?  Do you or someone you know
have talents or skills which you could share with others?  As well as
shaping the future development of an important  community project and
inspiring others, time spent volunteering with ACB Radio can provide useful
experience which may prove valuable in your future.

It is my intention to use the next few weeks to identify ACB Radio's key
strengths, and weaknesses, regroup and ultimately move forward by building
an ACB Radio which does more of the things you want and less of the things
you do not.  ACB Radio belongs to the blind community, and the future
direction of ACB Radio is, in a large part, up to you.

Main Menu has for nearly 4 years been the flagship programme of ACB Radio
Mainstream.  The good news is that we have already started work on the new
series, to start later next month.  An Announcement about an exact date will
be posted nearer the time.  In the mean time we will work on bringing the
archives up-to-date.  If you would like to help in this capacity, or in
production of the programme itself, then by all means let's be hearing from
you.

Your Main Menu submissions would be gratefully received.  See our guidelines
at

http://www.acbradio.org/faq-mm.html

Feel free to browse the archive and perhaps revisit items which are now
out-of-date.  Your demonstration doesn't have to be computer related.  It
can concern any piece of technology you choose.  Main Menu is not
exclusively about assistive technology, but using any technology from a
blindness perspective.  If you are unsure about any aspect of producing an
item for Main Menu, then drop us a line and we can discuss your ideas and
provide technical support.

If you or your company offers a product or service which you think maybe of
interest then we would be glad to have you on Main Menu.  Drop us a line and
we can help find a way to make this happen.

So for this, or any of the above you can email

support@acbradio.org

Feel free to pass this message on to friends or colleagues who may find it
of interest.

Many thanks.

Here's to ACB Radio's future.
--
Dave Williams
ACB Radio Director
http://www.acbradio.org


This list is a service of ACB Radio, on the web at http://www.acbradio.org

-- 
To unsubscribe, e-mail: announce-unsubscribe@acbradio.org
For additional commands, e-mail: announce-help@acbradio.org



