docno="lists-072-6975034"
received="Sun Feb 22 01:22:19 2004"
isoreceived="20040222062219"
sent="Sun, 22 Feb 2004 00:20:43 -0600"
isosent="20040222062043"
name="Gregg Vanderheiden"
email="gv@trace.wisc.edu"
subject="FW: UBER 3.1 proposal   Improved"
id="0HTH0059A2YJBW@smtp3.doit.wisc.edu"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="UBER 3.1 proposal   Improved"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-wai-gl@w3.org



The following text  for levels 1 and 2  was the result of the working group
call last Thursday.


The rest is the text -is from the original proposal - the group will be
reviewing it as well as all final level assignments as it continues
discussions next week.


Gregg


 


 


Guideline 3.1. Ensure that the meaning of content can be determined


Level 1 success criteria for 3.1


1.The natural language of the document as a whole can be identified by
automated tools. 
2.The meaning of abbreviations and acronyms can be programmatically
located. 


Level 2 success criteria for 3.1


1.The meanings and pronunciations of all words in the content can be
programmatically located.
2.The meaning of all idioms in the content can be programmatically
determined. 
3.All passages or phrases in the body of the content that are in a
language other than the primary natural language of the content have their
language identified through markup or other means.   [Note: does not include
use of foreign words in text where such usage is standard extension of the
language].




Level 3 success criteria for 3.1


1.There is a statement associated with the content asserting that the
Strategies for Reducing the Complexity of Content in Appendix E were
considered. http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/WCAG20/complex-content-notes 
2.The meaning of contracted words can be programmatically determined.
3.Where a word has multiple meanings and the desired meaning is not
the first in the associated dictionary(s), then additional markup or another
mechanism for determining the correct meaning is provided. 


Possible items for additions to level 3


1.Paragraphs develop a single topic or subtopic. 
2.Section headings and linked text are understandable when read by
themselves (for example, in a screen reader's list of links or a table of
contents). 
3.Page titles are informative and unique. 

 

 

NOTE:  

Programmatically Located - means that the meaning can be found - though
there may be multiple meanings for a word. 

One technique that is being explored is the use of the cascading
dictionaries directly associated with the content. 

NOTE:  This provision is dependent on the definition of a standard way to
associate dictionaries and the availability of on-line dictionaries.

Programmatically Determined - means that the specific meaning can be
determined. 

 

  _____  

The following success criteria were removed because they require the author
to define the intended audience. There is no way to test this since there is
no way for anyone but the author to know who the intended audience is or
even if they intended to include people with disabilities in their audience.

1.The resource uses vocabulary which is widely used by members of the
intended audience. 
2.The length and complexity of sentences are consistent with
recommended best practices for the intended audience, such as those found in
current textbooks about writing in the audience's field or discipline. 

The following success criteria are not machine or human inter-rater reliably
testable

1.The document uses page design, graphics, color, fonts, animations,
video, or audio to clarify complex text as necessary. (necessary for who?) 
2.inclusion of non-text content to supplement text for key pages or
sections of the site where they felt it was appropriate. (where who thought
it was appropriate?) 

 

 


NOTES ON DEFINITIONS RELATED TO THIS ITEM


 

1.add a definition of text to address "representation in Unicode"
issue  (and remove need for a checkpoint on this) 

a.text -  Content expressed as characters that are in Unicode or can
be automatically translated into Unicode. 

2.add a definition to the glossary for Unicode to address issue 673
(would be linked from the definitions above and below as well as from the
relevant SC
3.add unicode to the definition of non-text content:

a.non-text content includes but is not limited to images, text in
raster images, image map regions, animations (e.g., animated GIFs), ASCII
art, images used as list bullets, spacers, graphical buttons, sounds (played
with or without user interaction), stand-alone audio files, audio tracks of
video, and video. it also includes any text that can not be translated into
Unicode.

3.add a link to the definition of text and non-text content to the new
definition of "text"
4.add a note in guideline 1.1

a.note: characters that are not in Unicode or can not be automatically
mapped to Unicode are not text.

5. add a definition of ASCII art to address Issue 420

a.ASCII art - Graphic representations that are created by a spatial
arrangement of text characters. Although it can be rendered on a text
display, it is not text. 

 

 

 


Gregg

------------------------

Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D. 
Professor - Depts of Ind. Engr. & BioMed Engr.
Director - Trace R & D Center 
University of Wisconsin-Madison 
<http://trace.wisc.edu/> FAX 608/262-8848  
For a list of our list discussions http://trace.wisc.edu/lists/

 <http://trace.wisc.edu:8080/mailman/listinfo/>  

 

 



