docno="lists-082-4199741"
received="Fri Oct 16 12:22:17 1998"
isoreceived="19981016162217"
sent="Fri, 16 Oct 1998 12:19:06 -0400"
isosent="19981016161906"
name="Kitch Barnicle"
email="kitch@afb.org"
subject="visibility of features"
id="Version.32.19981016100202.01a6aed0@pop.igc.apc.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org

Hi Jon and everyone,

I've been out of action for a few weeks but I'm trying to catch up quickly.
Though a newly reorganized version of the guidelines are due imminently,
I'd like to comment on a few sections, starting with section 7 in the
August 14th version, Visibility of Accessibility Features.


Current Guideline - 7.1.1 Priority 2  Allow users to configure
accessibility features easily and directly.

I am afraid this is wording is too vague and I also wonder if it should be
given a priority 1 rating. After all, if the user cannot configure the
access features the application may be unusable. I also don't want to
implicitly suggest that someone else would have to configure the
application for a user with a disability. So here are some suggestions. As
always, I am interested in your thoughts on the topic.


Suggestion - 7.1.1 Implement user agent all windows, menus, controls and
toolbars using the general principles of accessible design. 
Users should be able to navigate to and interact with controls using
multiple input and output methods. 

I suppose something like this should go in the "general principles of
design" section but I want to make clear that not only to the features have
to be there, but the features themselves have to be accessible.


7.1.2 Allow users to reach all configurable features that impact user agent
accessibility
via a single, prominent point of entry.???(Are there too many options for a
single dialog?) 
Users should be able to discover and reach configurable options in a single
location such as a menu, dialog box or a property sheet???


7.1.3 Provide for quick access to key accessibility features.
 Users should be able to use shortcuts or menu items to modify certain
accessibility features. 

What I am trying to say is that users should be able to configure all the
"access" features in a single location, but certain features such as
loading and unloading images should be easily reachable from a menu and or
short cut.  Does that make sense? Can someone say it better? I know that
almost any feature can impact accessibility. Can we give any guidance on
what features should be grouped together. 

Next guideline - "Furnish predefined accessibility profiles for common
disabilities"

I'd like to suggest some new wording for this one. Hopefully I have
interpreted the meaning correctly. It may already be changed in the new
version but I'll comment anyway.

Suggested replacement - Furnish predefined profiles of user agent feature
settings applicable to users with common disabilities

Sample profiles of features settings can assist users in the initial set up
of the user agent. These profiles can serve as models and may be copied and
fine-tuned to mean an individual's particular needs. 

Right now this guidelines also states "As much accessibility configuration
as possible should be
done through CSS, if the user agent supports CSS." This statement confuses
me a bit. I almost think this should be separated from user agent features.
Any thoughts?



Thanks, 

Kitch



