docno="lists-086-3381161"
received="Wed Jul 24 13:34:30 2002"
isoreceived="20020724173430"
sent="Wed, 24 Jul 2002 13:33:03 -0400"
isosent="20020724173303"
name="Harvey Bingham"
email="hbingham@acm.org"
subject="UAAG 1.0 WD 8 July 2002 comments"
id="5.1.0.14.2.20020723234913.03025260@pop.rcn.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:<w3c-wai-ua@w3.org>



This as a neat document. I pick a few nits, some technical, some editorial.
Editing convention I use: _insert_, XdeleteX.

General:

What do you mean by "Conformance labels?"  Early on, you should explain, and
point to section 3 on conformance.

It is not always obvious to me the separation of items listed under
"Normative Inclusions and Exclusions." It is unusual in standards to
imply something is normatively excluded.

Content:

Table of Contents/Subsection headers: inconsistent, some end in ".", others 
don't.
(Mirrors those subsections in the text.)

1. Introduction, bullets 4 and 5: Neither appendix is actually in the 
document. Unusual.

1.1 bullet 1, add CSS?

1.2 bullet 1, The operating environment includes a keyboard (or keyboard 
equivalent).

1.3 Known limitations...
Second bulleted list, suggest <em>...</em> around opening non-sentence now 
ending with ".".

2. The user agent accessibility guidelines, second bulleted list, bullets 6 
and 7 ?normative?
on sections beginning with Optional?? ?

Bullet 7 has normative three times, omit from second sentence.  Grouping of 
opposites
doesn't make clear to which an entity applies.

1.1 Note:  two places "in space" would be clearer if replaced by "position 
in visual space".
near end ...through pointing device input and_/or_ voice input.

Normative Inclusions and Exclusions ... 3. Conformance Labels: 
Events   What does this
mean? What must be normative? Are events included or excluded?

[General issue: what do you mean by "Conformance Labels"?]

Guideline 2. Ensure user access to all content.

Normative Inclusions and Exceptions.
1. ...a requirement of XtheX _this_ current document, ...

2.3 2 bullet 1 sub-bullet 4a  ...link _back_ to C from the context of D.

Sufficient techniques
2. To satisfy provision two, the user agent may provide access on a 
per-element basis
(e.g., by allowing the user to query individual elements) or for all 
elements (e.g., by
offering a configuration to render conditional content all the time.) 
?Shoudn't this be
selective by element type, rather than instance thereof?

2.4 Allow time-independent interaction.
Sufficient techniques
1. bullet  1 Alert the user that the rendered content has been paused 
...?Should the user
be able to query the reason for the pause?

2.7 Repair missing content.
Sufficient techniques
1. ...The user agent may satisfy this checkpoint by basing the repair text 
on any of the following
available sources of information: _attribute value_, URI reference...[For 
example title="..."]

3.3 Toggle animated/blinking text

[What toggles? from animated to blinking!]

...at any rate of change, _lower than the screen refresh rate_, and lower 
than the critical
rate for triggering photo-sensitive epilepsy.

3.6 Toggle images.

Sufficient Techniques
1. ...making images invisible, but this technique is not recommended.
? What is the expected behavior using alt="brief description" if images are 
invisible?

Guideline 4. Ensure user control of rendering.

para 2...Users with color blindness may need to impose or prevent certain 
color combinations.
? Does this mean that the user can specify color mapping onto portions of 
the spectrum that
are better distinguishable?

4.1 Configure text size
1. Preserve text size differences when the user changes the scale  ? Didn't 
we agree that
the proportional change, rather than absolute point size difference, should 
be permitted?

4.5 Start, stop, pause, and navigate multimedia.

Sufficient technique. ?Advance three seconds?  I don't believe there is any 
magic in that
explicit amount. Cannot the user just "go forward", or "go backward" and 
stop after the
desired time interval? I expect the three seconds comes as a judgement that 
that is
a minimal duration to use.

4.9 Configure synthesized speech rate.

The user control of rate should be easily changed to allow the user to skim 
fast, and slow down to
study.

6.10 Timely exchanges through API*s.

"timely" is subjective, not quantifiable. As such it is no more than a 
binary: can
exchange or not.

Guideline 7. sentence 2: XThis includesX _These incude_

Final sentence Add link to "The chapter on conformance..."

7.4 Provide input configuration indications

Normative inclusions and exclusions

For user agent features ?_affecting accessibility_?

9.4 Restore viewport state history.

Normative inclusions and exclusions 1.
How does user or unaided user agent know that prior content is "stale?"

9.8 Provide text search

Some browsers provide search direction choice from present position, so
can get to prior match more directly than return to start and go forward.
I think this is desirable.

Should search be permitted to include content of alt text string?

9.10 Configure important elements

No mention of any importance conditioning based on attribute values.

10.7 Indicate viewport position

Normative inclusions and exceptions 1.
For two-dimensional renderings, relative position inculdes both vertical and
horizontal positions. ?Does this suggest alternative presentation of scroll 
bars?

11.2 Allow override of indings.

?Should author-specified accesskey assignment (of 11.2) override user binding?

3. Conformance

[I have not studied conformance in detail, so no comment.]

Glossary

Add   Document Type Definition (DTD)
as DTD as referred to alone and unexplained (for example, in Document 
object, Document
Object Model (DOM), and also in Element, element type.

Add Keyboard equivalent

Summary: This is a fine document, basis for checking existing user agents, and
motivation for improved next versions of these and for new user agents.

Thanks/Harvey Bingham



