docno="lists-005-15958507"
received="Fri Apr 13 17:52:02 2001"
isoreceived="20010413215202"
sent="Fri, 13 Apr 2001 17:51:27 -0400"
isosent="20010413215127"
name="Clemm, Geoff"
email="gclemm@rational.com"
subject="Versioning Packages"
id="3906C56A7BD1F54593344C05BD1374B1018E2360@SUS-MA1IT01"
expires="-1"


To:ietf-dav-versioning@w3.org

I did another pass through the "packages" description.
In particular, I gave the common intersection of all
packages (which is just the "version-control" feature)
its own package name (the "core-versioning" package).

There is more information on the "server workspace" and
"client workspace" differences in the "workspace feature"
and "working resource feature" descriptions.

Does this look OK?

Cheers,
Geoff


-------------------------------------------------------------

2.1Basic Versioning Packages

Although a server MAY support any combination of versioning features,
in order to minimize the complexity of a WebDAV basic versioning
client, a WebDAV basic versioning server SHOULD support one of the
following feature sets, or "packages":

Core-Versioning Package:
  version-control

Basic-Server-Workspace Package:
  version-control, version-history, checkout, workspace

Basic-Client-Workspace Package:
  version-control, update, working-resource

The core-versioning package supports linear versioning by both
versioning-aware and versioning-unaware client.  A versioning-aware
client can use reports and properties to access previous versions of a
version-controlled resource.

The basic workspace packages support parallel development of
version-controlled resources.

In the basic-server-workspace package, all persistent state is
maintained on the server.  Parallel development is supported by
allocating multiple "workspaces" on the server that display different
configurations of the shared resources.

In the basic-client-workspace package, each client maintains the
persistent state for its configuration of the shared resources.
Concurrent updates to the shared resources are provided by allocating
multiple "working resources" on the server for a single
version-controlled resource.

A server that supports both basic workspace packages will interoperate
with all basic versioning clients.

...

9.3Advanced Versioning Packages

Although a server MAY support any combination of advanced versioning
features, in order to minimize the complexity of a WebDAV advanced
versioning client, a WebDAV advanced versioning server SHOULD support
one of the following packages:

Advanced-Server-Workspace Package:
  Basic-Server-Workspace package plus all advanced features

Advanced-Client-Workspace Package:
  Basic-Client-Workspace Package plus all advanced features

The advanced-server-workspace package supports advanced versioning
capabilities for a client with no persistent state.  The
advanced-client-workspace package supports advanced versioning
capabilities for a client that maintains configuration state on the
client.  A server that supports both advanced workspace packages will
interoperate with all versioning clients.



