docno="lists-064-10942695"
received="Mon Jun 25 11:27:44 2001"
isoreceived="20010625152744"
sent="Mon, 25 Jun 2001 11:36:20 -0400"
isosent="20010625153620"
name="Wendy A Chisholm"
email="wendy@w3.org"
subject="Minutes from 25 June 2001 ERT WG telecon"
id="4.2.0.58.20010625100704.00b8bd50@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-er-ig@w3.org

Possible Agenda Items
- presenting EARL to humans (RDF to XHTML via XSLT)
- EARL Primer
- Existing tools - redesign of page, new tools to add?
- AERT open issues, look for msgs from me
- next f2f

Participants: Katie, William, Wendy, Sean,

Summary of  discussion (detailed minutes follow):
- F2F in September sounds good.  One option is to look for a place in 
Brighton.  Suggested that if people attending by phone that minutes be 
taken in IRC.  Need a better phone system as well.

- It is not clear where this group is headed.  After we finish EARL, there 
was discussion of merging with WCAG and AU, or providing support for those 
groups in developing tools to help them get through CR with respective 
advanced versions of their documents.

- Not clear how developers will include or refer to EARL since there isn't 
a MIME type.  There is a possibility of using http headers with RIDL, but 
that is not yet a standard and not clear if it will be 
implemented.  Therefore, we talked about using comments within headers like 
CSS and scripting use for backwards compatibility.

- SP talked about XWeb a new language he and Aaron Swartz are working 
on.  The group is very interested in learning more, since it includes a 
switch-like statement to associate multiple alternatives with a piece of 
content.  SP needs to check with Aaron before releasing the URI to 
everyone. Also discussed an article written with Murray Altheim.  SP needs 
to send URI to article to the list. See summary below.

- WL wants an abstract of EARL to take to the DIWG.  He will summarize the 
issues of the DIWG so someone can write an abstract that shows how EARL can 
help with those issues.

- We briefly discussed if WCAG 2.0 would require machine-readable 
assertions of the accessibility of the content.  So far the WCAG WG has 
discussed granular assertions but have not gotten into detailed conformance 
discussions as of yet.



***Detailed minutes

Next F2F
WL Seattle in September
WC However, SP couldn't make it. Therefore, what if we went to SP?
(SP is in Brighton Sussex)
WL Make sure that minutes are in irc.  Need a better phone system - 
everyone should be wearing headsets.

WC Focus of next F2F?
KHS Where is this group going? Purpose of ER?
WC Working on tools to help ATAG and WCAG get through CR.  Implementations 
of EARL.  Need to do WART to show that it is "real."

SP Link EARL from XWeb. EARL doesn't have a MIME type.
WC Do annotations have MIME types?
SP RDF, not officially listed MIME type.  WCAG should be labeled for what 
it is.  Namespaces help, if not XML rely on MIME types.
KHS possible to register?
SP Yes, need RDF registered first. SVG uses the +xml, we would need to use 
+xml and +rdf.
WL What can we do to enable author to enable EARL declaration?
SP Http headers using RIDL.  Could define new types of content w/URIs.
WL what if you had a comment and code at beginning that made it something 
you could use.
SP Like P3P labels and PICs. OR http-equiv attribute.
WL Kludges are perjorative, but the whole thing is a kludge. Legacy is 
non-existent.
SP That's what they did for CSS in HTML, a comment.
WL I think there is some way to do it.  Put meta anywhere.
SP Serialze EARL in augmented meta data. Perhaps by qualifying some of the 
types.
WL Idea of authors to make assertions is needed. Everything presumes a 
certain set of baseline capabilities/system requirements. One assertion 
that an author makes are the presumptions, e.g. you need IE7 to use this.

/* SP describes XWeb, a language that he and Aaron are writing.  It's a 
modularization of HTML, true separation of presentation from 
content.  Allows multiple alternatives for content.  Looked at using switch 
statements to determine which alternative to use.  Packaging for reuse 
between documents. SP has URI, but not sure Aaron wants to publish to 
people yet.  We all encouraged SP to prod Aaron to publish URI.  SP said it 
had only been in development for about a week.   Also talked about a note 
with Murray Altheim re: modularization of XHTML, augmeta.  */

Action SP: send URI to list re: modularization of XHTML - augmeta.

WL Need an abstract of EARL to take to DIWG.

Action WL: summarize issues of DIWG and send to group so someone can write 
abstract of EARL for DIWG.

WL Highlight things that make use or potentially make use of EARL.

SP Machine-readable assertions required in WCAG 2.0?

WC Not yet, have talked about granular assertions. Level A+



--
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
seattle, wa usa
tel: +1 206.706.5263
/--



