docno="lists-008-7831937"
received="Mon May  6 21:26:38 2002"
isoreceived="20020507012638"
sent="Tue, 7 May 2002 03:34:58 +0200"
isosent="20020507013458"
name="Dr Salma Abdu"
email="salma01@qrio.com"
subject="FROM Dr SALMA"
id="200205070126.VAA27313@www19.w3.org"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"



FROM: DR. SALMA ABDU ( MNIM, NIIM, CIBN, ACA )
 UNION BANK PLC. 
 
 
 Dear Friend, 
 
 
 I know that this email will surely come to you as a surprise, but I 
 will crave your indulgence to view it seriously and I apologise, but 
 I hope that it will be a welcome surprise. Before I run out of steam, 
 I will like to introduce my self and go straight to the point. My 
 name is Dr. Salma Abdu and I am a banker. My primary reason for 
writing to you is to seek your partnership/assistance in a business 
 transaction. I need your partnership and assistance because of the 
 
 following reasons: 
 
 a. it is practically impossible for me to carry out this business 
 alone. 
 
 b. you live in a foreign land far away from mine. This should 
 normally not be a requirement, but when you understand the 
 transaction then you will understand why it is important that you 
 live far away from me. 
 
 c. The amount of money involved in this transaction is 
 US$18,500,000.00, which is too much for a man of modest means like my 
 self to handle in my country. 
 
 I believe from my few points above, you can begin to get an idea why 
 I need your participation. 
 
 Let me explain how the money, which is the basis of this business I 
 am proposing, came about. Before I became a deputy director, some 
 years ago I used to be Accounts Officer to some special corporate 
 customers. One of these very important customers of our bank(Union 
 Bank PLC) was Engineer Mohammed Bin Waseem an Arabian citizen, who 
 had spent most of his years before his death working in Africa and 
 mostly in Nigeria. He died in a plane crash in 1996 in Nigeria. 
 
 This money belonged to him. Technically speaking now,it belongs only 
 to his name. The money is payment he received for a contract he 
 executed on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing for 
 the government. 
 
 My reason for deciding to carry out this transaction is that Engr. 
 Waseem did not mention any next of kin in any of the documents held 
 by the bank for the number of years he had banked with us. Since 1996 
 we have searched for any body that could be related to Engr. Waseem, 
 I was 
 mandated by the bank to search for a relation of Engr. Waseem and I 
 did this from January 1997 to December 1999 after which the search 
 was called off in the belief that soon a relative may turn up to 
 claim his estate. Nevertheless, as it is, there is no relative. 
 
 Now, the Chairman of the bank who is a retired soldier has indicated 
 his intentions for the money. During the last meeting of Directors 
 and Deputies, he said that he would donate the money to a military 
 trust if it is not claimed soon, this invariably means the continuous 
 flow of more arms and ammunition. I know for sure that not all of the 
 money will go to the military trust some will surely line his pockets 
 and that of anybody who is in support of his plan. 
 
 My plan is to get a trust worthy person that can, under my constant 
 guidance present him self as a cousin to the late Engr. Waseem. I 
 want you to note that your citizenship does not matter; 
 
 You do not have to be an Arabian. The papers demanded by the normal 
 procedure for the claiming of an inheritance will take care of 
 everything. You will be sole beneficiary to the estate of Engr. 
 Waseem. All I need is for you to follow my instructions closely 
 because I am experienced in inheritance matters here and I am on 
 ground here to advice you on every step until you receive the money. 
 Then we meet. 
 
 For your participation, we will allow you 30% of the gross. All 
expenses incurred in the process of this transaction will be deducted 
form the gross value and shared at a commensurate ratio; this we will 
 done at the end of the transaction, because the money is bonded. 
 
An estimated 10% or less will cover all incidental expenses and we 
 will take 60% for ourselves. The most important thing to me right now 
 is trust on both sides. Now the money is still in the care of the 
 bank, I hope the trust will still be there when we must have legally 
 established your relationship as cousin to Engr. Waseem and the 
 money is paid to you. I need also to trust that you will not tell 
 people or your bank about this business. Collect the money first then 
 I get my share, then you can tell any body what you chose. I shall 
 need your help to invest in your country; therefore, any experience 
 you have in this area will be beneficial. 
 
 Surely, you must have some questions or may be you just need further 
 clarification. I will be happy to receive a mail  from you 
  to this effect, this will enable me explain further 
 what the next step is and the general plan. I will also need your 
 most confidential telephone number and fax number, if you have a 
 mobile phone I believe it will help so that I can reach you anytime. 
 
 Please kindly respond by email only 
 
 Your positive and negative response is highly welcome. 
 
 
 
 Dr. Salma Abdu.



application/octet-stream attachment: a4.txt




