docno="lists-020-8193655"
received="Sat Mar 27 02:04:06 2004"
isoreceived="20040327070406"
sent="Friday, 26 Mar 2004 22:30:34"
isosent="20040327033034"
name="hostan@unicnetwork.com"
email="hostan@unicnetwork.com"
subject="Increase your telecom profits by 30%"
id="11ba4185-d2f0-4133-82d5-112fe2eabb78@IETF.ORG"
charset="utf-8"
expires="-1"

To:public-qt-comments@w3.org




Prepay today                                                             VOL 1

The first prepaid telecom/mobile services were launched in 

Europe and the US the 2nd half of 1995 during 1998 there was an explosion of services; many driven by the example of Portugal, Italy, South Africa and Mexico. The market has continued to grow at phenomenal rate. 

 

The Market 

    USA In 2000
??        29.8 Million

??         49.3 Million by 2005



    In 2001, 
??         930 Million of Pre-Pay Users

??         3.6 Billion Prepaid transactions

     High penetration of prepayment
??         89% Italy sales of mobiles now Prepay

??         79% Portugal sales of mobiles now Prepay

??         71% UK sales of mobiles now Prepay

??         49% France sales of mobiles now Prepay

??         Europe following at 64%

Scratch the scratch cards !

Printed paper and plastic vouchers are now being replaced by electronic recharge and UNIC Network offers the entire solution for retailers.

UNIC Network  provides prepaid mobile services across 62,000 points of sale in 42 countries. The UNIC Network  solution provides prepaid mobile services across a range of technological solutions, including EFPOS terminals, cash registers and vending machines.



UNIC Network  is providing a solution that meets the demands of the local market including convenience stores, emerging countries, or retail chains. UNIC Network provides end-to-end prepaid solutions to the industry, from POS Terminals, secure data flow, ASP and facility management, to front and back office, VAS ( Value added services ), consulting, hardware installation, integration and data mining, hotline and customer care. 

A cash machine

The UNIC Network solution is designed to generate revenues at the merchant level. The solution is multi-products, multi-networks, multi distribution channels, with 4-levels of wholesale. The front-to-end includes an online monitor, a loader, a Terminal Management System (TMS), and reporting tools. Interface with accounting system and cash management software is available.

Our running customers claim sales increases from 7% to 20%.

The Security Issue Is Key

The solution benefits from 

The solution benefits from UNIC Network???s daily efforts to improve the security of transactions. Its well-known EFT expertise is used to store and dispatch the PIN codes in a secure, 3 DES-encrypted manner both on the terminal and the server as to reduce if not to negate the possibilities of theft.

The system is designed in such a manner that it rarely needs any human interaction apart from initial set-up and basic administration of the system. All sensitive data elements of any type of communication are encrypted for security purposes and the system is built on a reliable and stable system architecture. 

Up to date asymmetric data flow protocols and mutual certifications with POS terminals provide a high security standard.


The Vision For e-Prepay

We cannot turn back the clock. Prepaid is now entrenched in most markets. Instead, existing prepaid services will have to undergo a cost-structure transformation. UNIC Network aims to address this need for change. With UNIC Network, GSM operators could easily give up the scratch cards method and sell the recharge PIN codes through retail terminals as EFTPOS.

Besides wireless top up, UNIC Network offers a wide range of value added solutions as e-purse & loyalty packages, ticketing (mass events, stadium & concerts ticketing), card based prepaid utilities (electricity, water) , Lotto & knowledge games, bills payment, pick up points for mail ordering, day-insurance, transport, VAT collection, etc. Daily efforts to improve the security of transactions. Its well-known EFT expertise is used to store and dispatch the PIN codes in a secure, 3 DES-encrypted manner both on the terminal and the server as to reduce if not to negate the possibilities of theft.

The system is designed in such a manner that it rarely needs any human interaction apart from initial set-up and basic administration of the system. All sensitive data elements of any type of communication are encrypted for security purposes and the system is built on a reliable and stable system architecture. 

Up to date asymmetric data flow protocols and mutual certifications with POS terminals provide a high security standard.



Vision : Multiple delivery channels 


???POS 65% Market Compatibility 
???EPOS  (integrated cash register) 
???ATM 
???Vending Machine 

Vision : Cross selling customized product delivery
 
"The product delivered  by the POS or other delivery channel can be customized remotely and immediately in term of marketing and promotional content at the POS level and depending on the merchant context in which it is situated" 

Contact us for more info 

 




