docno="lists-032-5081813"
received="Fri Jun 21 09:21:34 2002"
isoreceived="20020621132134"
sent="Fri, 21 Jun 2002 09:24:04 -0400"
isosent="20020621132404"
name="profile@bitsmart.com"
email="profile@bitsmart.com"
subject="The USA is Calling You!"
id="200206211216.IAA04058@mail.barupanama.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To: You and Your Family<>


Dear Friend,

Here's some news about USA Opportunities....

In 1998  my family and I were approved for US Green Cards .... to become permanent US Residents ... with the right to live, work, study and play in the USA.  Now, as I look back at the small amount of money invested by us in securing our Green Cards, I know that it is undoubtedly the best investment our family has ever made. 

So, why am I telling you all this? Very simply because you too may also qualify and be fortunate enough to come and live in the USA. Here's how it works ...

Every year, the US State Department allocates 50 000 Green Cards to Qualifying Applicants from around the world. This is known as the Diversity Immigrant Visa Lottery (which is more commonly referred to as the 'Green Card Lottery').This Lottery was created by the US Congress to allow Applicants from low-immigration countries to legally live, work and study in the USA. This can be the easiest and most inexpensive means of gaining permanent residence and even citizenship to the USA. 

Having personally benefitted from this system, I have managed to negotiate a limited number of e-vouchers that could save you -   a whopping 20% off already deeply discounted US Green Card Lottery processing fees. To proceed right now, simply click the link below:

http://www.bitsmart.com/usgreencard

This will activate your discount e-voucher and could put you on the road to becomming a US resident and even a US Citizen. But please don't hestitate. There are only a very limited number of discount vouchers that can validate. Should this link not be operational, then these vouchers may already have been fully allocated. 
 
I'm sure you already have many questions rushing through your mind. Is this for real? How exactly does the US Green Card Lottery work? Do you qualify for entry? And I'm certain plenty more ....

Well, most of these questions have been asked a hundred times before. For quick access to a Questions and Answers page, simply click on the following link:

http://www.bitsmart.com/usquestions

Well, I've taken up  enough of your valuable time. I hope you will take advantage of this special discount offer by clicking the link below. Remember, once you have activated your discount, you can go back at any time before your discount expires and claim it.  Here again is the web address you need to visit to activate your discount voucher:

http://www.bitsmart.com/usgreencard

Best Wishes,

John Curry
Profile Information Services


NB:  You can be removed from our Mailing List by including "Remove"  in the subject line of an e-mail and sending it to profile@bitsmart.com, or by clicking on the following link:

mailto:profile@bitsmart.com?Subject=remove



