docno="lists-002-15046555"
received="Thu Sep 25 07:35:44 2003"
isoreceived="20030925113544"
sent="Thu, 25 Sep 2003 04:28:58 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20030925112858"
name="agha dilbar"
email="aghadilbar@yahoo.com"
subject="un should be the global village super power"
id="20030925112858.2426.qmail@web11503.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To: i<iana@iananet.org>, i<ietlhr@yahoo.com>, i<ifad@ifad.org>, i<ihfo@concern-ny.org>, i<iibi@islamic-banking.com>,hizbollahmedia@hizbollah.org,hr-net@hri.org,hrcon@apollo.net.pk,hrh.office@agfund.org,hrmdpt@yahoo.com,html-tidy@w3.org,husnue@garanti.com.tr


 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

500000 Urgent Peace letters to, 

Head of States, UN, Parliaments, Political Parties, TV News Channels, International Newspapers, Magazines, Universities, Think tanks, Amnesty International and Welfare NGO?s, all over the World 

Subject: Friendship, Progress and Prosperity for peace throughout the World 

I Agha Dilbar Founder International Revolution Movement have sent 500000-e-mail research Peace Letters to International Community from 11 September 2001 till today about War on Terror. 

Our NGO International Revolution Movement has 3-Principles, Friendship, Progress and Prosperity all over the World. Our NGO,s programme is for the welfare of International Community and to save the Human Being from 3rd World War and World Terrorism. 

I Agha Dilbar have a Great Peace Plan for Kashmir, Afghanistan, Chachnia, Middle East and Iraq to stop and eliminate Suicidal Bomb Attacks all over the World. Some Powerful Underground Groups want to begin 3rd World War for their worst intentions. 

World should remember that religion Islam is a religion of Peace, Security, Fraternity and Love. We are not concerned with any sort of Terrorism; Terrorists are only using the name of Islam. Likewise people using the name of Islam to pretence are not Muslims. They are only Terrorists. 

I, Agha Dilbar on emergency ground want to present solid suggestions to International Community, regarding their policies on War against Terrorism, can be saved from Economic Crisis, I should be given a chance to make Open Speech and Dialogue, on the leading TV News Channels to eliminate Poverty, Unemployment and Lawlessness at International level. 

I am warning the International Community that according to my previous research spread over a period of 2-years; it is evident that sufficient intentional or unintentional efforts have not been made to eradicate the root causes of Terrorism in all its forms and manifestations (Suicide bombing and destructive tendencies). As a result thereof it is quite possible that there may be dramatic hundred times Increase in the Incidences of Terrorism and Suicide Bombing in the near future. For the sake of World Peace, I therefore request the International Community to provide me an opportunity to explain to them, the root causes of World Terrorism and Suicide Bombings as to take bold steps to put an end to its basic causes. In nutshell instead of using Brute Force, try to solve the matter through Table Talk. I should convince those who are on the wrong track that they are their well - wisher and are interested to develop Friendship for mutual Progress and Prosperity. 

I Agha Dilbar feel that my viewpoint about War on Terror is not represented in 

The World. I appeal all the leading TV News Channels of the World, Please invite me on your TV Shows, so that I can offer my Open Speech and Dialogue about War on Terror to protect the World Peace. 

It is requested that in recognition of my sincere services, I please be given a chance of Official Visit to Interested Countries for elaborating my Great Peace Plan before the Head of States and other concerned Higher Authorities. 

Regards 

Agha Dilbar founder 

International Revolution Movement 

Central Secretariat 

64-neelum, Allama Iqbal Town, Lahore (Pakistan) 

Phone:0092-42-7830084,Mobile: 0300-4370258 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.2 

Subject: Agha Dilbar request for a chance of Open Speech and Dialogue to World Community for Peace. We want Peace not War. 

I Agha Dilbar have a Great Peace Plan for the World Community. This is a great treasure for Humanity. After following my Great Peace Plan, War on Terror will fight through UN Principles. I request to all the Head of States, UN, Parliaments, Political Parties, TV News Channels, International Newspapers and Magazines, Think Tanks, Universities, Amnesty International, and Welfare NGO"s, Please invite me in your Countries, Institutions, TV Shows, Media Forums to give me a chance of Open Speech and Dialogue about my Great Peace Plan. Thanks. 

I am sure that my Great Peace Plan will protect the Impending 3rd world war. After following the instructions contained in my Great Peace Plan, people of the World become Prosperous and Developed according to the latest Scientific Era. 

I Agha Dilbar have a Great Peace Plan, which depends upon, Friendship, Progress and Prosperity throughout the World. I hope that World Community will favor my Great Peace Plan quickly. Any question about my Great Peace Plan? Write directly to me. 

Thanks and Regards E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No. 3 

Subject: Make the UN Peace Force strongest force of the World to save the World coming from on 3rd World War and State Terrorism 

I Agha Dilbar am writing the World Community that Israel should be stopped from genocide and atrocities committed in Palestine. In the wake of these atrocities there must be more Suicidal Bombing and many other Horrible Incidences like 9/11 Attacks due to revenge, which can cause 3rd World War any time. 

1) To break the coming 3rd World War the owners of many Armament Producing Factories are playing their roll very actively; so that they can get new orders after the old stock get exhausted during the 3rd World War. 

2) I am putting on alert, UN, Head of States, Parliaments, Plitical Parties, TV News Channels, International Newspapers and Magazines, Universties, Think Tanks, Amnesty International and welfare NGO"s of the World, that after the 3rd World War the Progress and Prosperity of all the Rich, Developed, Under Developed, Poor and Backward Countries of the World will become a dream in the wake of their Economic Crisis. 

3) Current Powerful, Rich and Developed Nations should keep in mind, that even if they Conquer the Weak Poor and Backward Nations their Armies will have to face an upended Gorilla War in the occupied regions for the next Five Ten or Twenty Years, which might result in the destruction of their Defense Power and Economy. Here is a live example of Palestine, Kashmir, Chechnya,Afghanistan and Iraq. 

4) According to Agha Dilbar strategy, the entire giant disputes of the World like Palestine, Kashmir Chechnya, Afghanistan and Iraq could only be solved through UN Peace Force, after making it the strongest force in the World. I am positive that instead of using the wrong tactics of power in solving the above mentioned disputes of the World, will try to solve these amicably through Friendship, Progress and Prosperity and can avert World Terrorism and 3rd World War. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.4 

Subject: Agha Dilber?s request to Rich and Developed Nations not to crush underdeveloped and Poor Nations with State Terrorism or by starting 3rd World War. 

As per my research the State Terrorism in Kashmir, Palestine, Chechnya, Afghanistan and Iraq may cause of 3rd World War and Hundred Times Suicide Bombing all over the World. My message to UN is to crush the State Terrorism through UN Peace Force in Kashmir, Palestine and Chechnya. Also in the war affected areas. UN Peace Force should make practical efforts to solve disputes with Table Talk, through Friendship Progress and Prosperity, all over the World. 

I hope the UN would be successful by implementing my Great Peace Plan, Friendship, Progress and Prosperity in disputed countries all over the World. If UN failed to bring Peace in these countries then 3rd World War and World Terrorism would be resulting in death of Twenty Crore People and complete destruction of World Economy. 

Remember as per my research the next 3rd World War would not be an Atomic War, but it will be fought through traditional newly invented Dangerous Weapons. 

There will be no doubt that Developed and Rich Countries Forces equipped with newly invented Dangerous Weapons will win the 3RD World War. 

In case of starting 3RD World War, Developing Countries and their Survival Countries involved in the long Gorilla War for their survival. 

Resultantly the World Community will totally collapse. Therefore in view above stated positions, the Developed Countries, possessing fatal weapons should, instead of conquering the Under Developed, Poor Countries by force, may achieve the goal through Friendship, Progress and Prosperity with the help of UN, so that permanent World Peace should be brought. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter NO.5 

Subject: New Revolutionary Planning to Eradicate the worst Economic Crisis at the International Level 

I Agha Dilbar present new revolutionary planning to the World Community to eradicate the worst Economic Crisis. After the implementation of these suggestions all the Developed Rich Countries and Underdeveloped Poor Countries will enter in a new golden era of Friendship, Progress and Prosperity. 

1) According to new business strategy of Agha Dilbar, all the Developed and Rich Countries of Europe, America and Asia will contribute 1% of their annual National Budgets as a free aid to the Undeveloped, Poor Countries for their Education, Health and Agriculture projects. 

2) In future all the Developed Rich Countries will make a final decision to produce commercial loans in Agriculture, Industry, Trade and Education at the rate of 1% Interest. 

3) In future all the Developed Rich Countries of the World will get the 50% profit of all the commercial projects installed in Agriculture, Industry, Trade and Education fields,of poor and underdeveloped countries. 

Rest of the 50% profit will be spent on the welfare projects of Underdeveloped Poor Countries in the fields of Health, Education, Agriculture and Industry etc. 

4) Moreover Developed Rich Countries of the World will bound to pay 50% of their earnings in Gas, Oil, Electricity and in the projects of minerals like Coal, Steel, Jewels, Gold as royalty to the Underdeveloped Poor Countries of the World. 

5) In future Developed Rich Countries of the World will make a treaty through BOOT, according to which Under Developed Poor Countries will provide free land on 20 years lease for the commercial projects in Agriculture, Industry, Trade and Education etc. Under the BOOT Treaty all the Investors of Developed Rich Countries will Hand Over their Business Assets, Buildings, Machinery and Transport to the Undeveloped Poor Countries after 20 years free of cast. 

5) After above said business strategy, introduced by Agha Dilbar in future may avoid World Terrorism and 3rd World War on its implementation. This plan requires the Rich Developed Countries to invest on big commercial projects in the fields of Agriculture; Industry and Trade in Under Developed Poor Countries to promote Friendship, mutual Progress and Prosperity. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.6 

Subject: Agha Dilbar Great Peace Plan to give the command of forces of all the countries UN Peace Force to decide War against any Terrorist Country .

1) Under the resolution of UN Security Council, to control the coming 3rd World War and World Terrorism, to make the UN Peace Force the most Powerful Force of the World. Following rules and regulations will be acted upon. 

2) In future UN Peace Force would be given the command of forces of all the Countries and UN Peace Force will decide whether to wage a War against a Terrorist Country or not. 

3) In future UN Peace Force will be Independent to take any timely action against Terrorist Country. 

4) Under the UN Security Council Resolution, UN will take the charge of all Armament Producing Factories of the World in future. And in the said factories the production would be curtailed to 25% only, and the rest of 75% production would take place in the form of Cars, Buses, Trucks, Tractors, Trains, Ships, Aero Planes and Latest Machinery. 

5) After tacking the charge of all the International Forces, UN Peace Force will convert 25% of army into UN Peace Force, and rest of the 75% will be appointed to build, Dams, Canals, Roads, Schools, Colleges, Universities, Hospitals, Sports Complexes, Industries and projects of Oil, Gas and Minerals. 

6) UN Security Council will pass a resolution, under which it will take of all the Weapons of Mass Destruction into it?s custody and will dispose it off gradually in future, peaceful use of Atomic Power would be promoted in all 

The countries. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.7 

Subject: The Powerful, Developed countries should not initiate the 3rd World War. The rich nations in spite of their victory will have to face the destruction of their Defense Power and Economy in the Long Gorilla War. 

1) According to Agha Dilbar?s research on War against Terrorism Rich and Developed Countries of the World should never take an emotional step of initiating the War on the bases of their Defense and their Economic Power 

2) If their exist such few Terrorist Countries, then to destroy such countries War should be fought from the platform of UN Peace Force. 

3) Rich and Powerful Countries should remember that due to state terrorism in Kashmir, Palestine, Chechnya, Afghanistan and Iraq the bloody events like 9/11 could take hundred times in revenge. 

4) If Rich and Powerful Nations do not take a positive and strong step to stop the state terrorism in Kashmir, Palestine, Chechnya through UN Peace Force and instead they start aimless 3rd World War, then their would be Hundred Times more Suicidal Terrorist Attacks in revenge. 

5) According to Agha Dilbar,s research, in the wake of 3rd World War, Twenty Crore innocent people will fall prey to death. 

6) In the wake of expected 3rd World War Rich and Powerful Nations in spite of becoming victorious will have to face a worst Gorilla War in the next 5,10, 20 years, which will destroy the Defense and Economic Power of victorious countries. 

7) According to Agha Dilbar,s Research, World Terrorism and Suicidal Bombing should be rooted out through UN Peace Force or through Table Talk. 

8) It is the best Advice to Rich and Powerful Nations from Agha Dilbar that instead of staging 3rd World War they should keep the veneration of the global village and its people and try to solve the disputed problems through UN Table Talk and take the step of Friendship for mutual Progress and Prosperity. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.8 

Subject: A New Plan of Agha Dilbar for solutions of disputes between enemy countries instead War or Terrorism and convert them to promote, Friendship Mutual Progress and Prosperity 

1) The disputed issues should be resolved through Table Talk instead of War or Terrorist Activities, between enemy countries. 

2) The enemy countries should launch mutual Cultural Shows on permanent basis. 

3) The disputed enemy countries start on large scale mutual Import / Export facility on barter treaty. 

4) The Disputed Enemy Countries should provide mutual Scholarships to their Talent Students on equal basis. 

5) The disputed enemy countries should sign mutual pacts to construct Schools, Colleges, Universities and Hospitals for welfare purposes. 

6) The disputed enemy Countries should sign pacts for reducing the Arms and engaging their Armies for construction of Dams, Canals, Highways, Bridges, Sports Complexes, Schools, Colleges, Universities, Hospitals, Airports, Sea Ports and Heavy Industries. 

7) The disputed enemy countries should co-operate to finish Terrorism in their countries on equal basis. 

8) The disputed enemy countries should start mutual Economic Programme for giving Jobs to Doctors, Engineers, Mechanics, Electricians and Labor on equal basis in their countries. 

9) The disputed enemy countries should sign mutual pacts to construct Dams, Canals, Motorways, Bridges, Five star Hotels, Airports, Seaports and Heavy Industries. 

With the help of above Agha Dilbar plan the disputed enemy countries 

Would be able to solve disputes and stop War and Terrorist Activities. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.9 

Subject: According to Agha Dilbar?s research, what type of acute horrible and dreadful problems, World Community will have to face during and after the coming 3rd World War. 

1) If UN fails to avert the coming 3rd World War, which would be fought with Traditional Weapons, under these circumstances, World Community will have to face the following expected terrible results. 

2) Powerful and Rich countries after making continuous attacks and capturing at least four countries within the next few months, the 3rd World War would start 

Formally and it will continue for the next one year. 

3) In the coming 3rd World War, the allies of Powerful Rich Countries would be Hundred in Number, and the Weak and Poor Countries against these would also be Hundred. 

4) In the coming 3rd World War, around 20 Crore Innocent People would fall prey to death, and about 50 Crore would get crippled. 

5) Due to the 3rd World War, about One Billion People homeless and Jobless after destruction of their cities, and they will have to live a Nomadic Life in the open places for the next 5,10 or 20 years. 

6) During and after the 3rd World War there will be a 75% decline in the business of Agriculture, Industry, Trade, Tourism, Import and Export in the next 5 years. 

7) After the 3rd World War, there will be a chain of Bloody Revolutions in the Rich Develop Countries and Poor Underdeveloped Countries due to Inflation, Unemployment, Lawlessness and Corruption. 

8) To avert all these terrible consequences of the 3rd World War, I Agha Dilbar request UN and World Community to instead of making the Global Village a Fire, Terrorism and War, they should try to solve the burning issues through Table Talk or UN Peace Force in a Friendly, Progressive and Prosperous way. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.10 

Subject: A Grate Peace Plan for UN and International Community to save the World coming on 3rd World War 

I Agha Dilbar put a Great Peace Plan, War against Terror, for the sake of World Community. I appeal UN to act upon my Great Peace Plan unconditionally for the sake of World Peace. 

1) All countries of the World should make the strongest UN Peace Force. 

2) UN Peace Force should be given full authorities for the sake of World Peace in Kashmir, Chechnya, Iraq, Afghanistan, Palestine, Sari lanka and Nepal etc where Peace Plan may be implemented war effected areas and all administrative authorities may allotted to the UN Peace Force till the peace restored completely 

4) I Agha Dilbar am afraid that the World Community may enter into the 3rd World War, because of such disputes among the above mentioned Nations, are acting may induce the bloody war. Which can increase losses of life and Economy Hundred Times. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.11 

Subject: World Community must support the Great Peace Plan of Agha Dilbar to stop the horrible, dreadful 3rd World War and World Terrorism 

1) For stopping the 3rd World War, which may erupt as a result of retaliation in Philistine, Kashmir, Chachneya, Afghanistan and Iraq State Terrorism, the World Community should support Agha Dilbar?s Great Peace Mission. For this purpose, peace rallies should be organized in all big cities as the next 3rd World War may take 200 Million innocent human lives, besides crippling 500 Million People and starving, homeless One Billion People in addition to carrying inherent danger of Economic Crises. 

2) The World Community should awaken International awareness for making the UN Peace Force as the strongest Peace Enforcing Body having its control over armies of all UN Member Countries. 

3) Apparently, Agha Dilbar?s Great Peace Mission is a weak but truthful concept, which with the help of World Community will compels the strong and superpower armies to surrender before UN. 

4) The World Community should keep in mind that their support of this Great Peace Mission will change the 3rd World War and World Terrorism into Friendship Progress and Prosperity then the World will enter into a new golden era. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.12 

Subject: Next 3rd World War is the Oil and Economic Interest War, which will bring numerous International Revolutions between the Conquers and Concurred Nations 

1) World Community must remember that next 3rd World War is represented Religious War. Infect above mention war is the Oil and Economic Interest War. 

2) Next 3rd World War is the Oil and Economic Interest War, which will bring numerous International Revolutions between the Conquers and Concurred Nations. 

3) International Anti-war demonstrations will play historic role to stop the 3rd World War. 

4) The beginning of 3rd World War will prove strong grip of bureaucracy on the Democratic Institutions. 

5) The suspension of 3rd World War will crush the strong grip of International Bureaucratic Institutions. 

E-mail<aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.13 

Subject: Agha Dilbar?s Practical Steps for Peace Mission and International Community Awareness 

1) All the vehicles throughout the World should affix a sticker saying "Peace not War" 

2) Posters with the same slogan," Peace not War" should be displayed at all Public Places, like Shops Showrooms, Hotels, Restaurants, Clubs, Schools, Colleges, Hospitals and Factories. 

3) World famous Singers, TV, Film and Stage Artists should present Songs, Stage Shows, Dramas and Films with this theme," Peace not War" 

4) World Fame commercial and industrial organizations, Banks, Mills, Import Export and Insurance Concerns should advertise with this slogan: "Peace not War" 

5) At International Level, Amnesty International and all the welfare NGO?s should organize public rallies of "Peace not War" 

6) The affected classes of World would be 3rd World War like Laborers Farmers Students, Women and Children should hold rallies in support of "Peace not War" 

7) The Social and Political Activists Teachers, Advocates, Politicians Intellectuals, World Famous Players and Social Workers should send E-mails (with a copy through International News Papers and Magazines) for stoppage of War to those Head of States who are preparing for War. 

8) According to Agha Dilbar?s Thesis, the only solution for preventing the next 3rd World War is that the UN should be converted into the world?s strongest Peace Force instead of baseless speech forum. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.14 

Subject: To Stop the 3rd World War all the Anti-War Countries should make use full strongest media Radio, TV, Internet and Newspapers 

1) Anti-War Countries should make appeal for Peace not War the peace loving people of the World. 

2) Anti-War Countries should prove their propaganda; the Superpowers of the World are fighting for the security of their wrong Economic, Oil and Power Interest. 

3) Anti-War Countries should tell to the people of the World through their media that next 3rd World War will become the cause Death of Two Hundred Million Innocent People and make Five hundred million People disabled. 

4) Anti-War Countries should tell the International Community that next 3rd World War will become the cause of One Billion People Homeless and Unemployed. In this way they will live in Nomadic Life for the next 5,10 or 20 years. 

5) Anti-War Countries should tell the International Community that next 3rd World War will become the collapse of 75% International Business of Agriculture, Commerce, Industry, Tourism and Import Export. In this way all Rich and Poor Countries of the World will become the cause of Inflation, Unemployment Lawlessness and Corruption with consciences of Bloodshed. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.15 

Subject: A few Powerful Developed Countries want to Enforce Law of Jungle (Might is Right)after Conquering the World, International Community should stand against it, Like an Iron Wall 

1) For controlling the Oil Resources of World, a few Developed Countries are planning to enslave the International Community through next 3rd World War. 

2) World Community should resist this move of Powerful Countries, who are launching 3rd World War through false propaganda of Terrorism and Weapons of Mass Destruction. 

3) The recent announcement of these countries has proved their falsehood that they will not hesitate to form a new International Organization if UN Security Council does not support their War Mission. 

4) The World Community must continue Peaceful Rallies for stopping the 3rd World War, so that 200 Million People can be sued from Death, 500 Million from being Crippled and One Billion from Starvation and becoming Homeless. 

5) The World Community should act upon Agha Dilbar?s Great Peace Plan by establishing Anti-War Peace Force under UN Control. 

6) Agha Dilbar?appeal to International Newspapers,Magazines and TV News Channels that my Great Peace Plan is printed / broadcast on urgent basis, so that World Community must know it for stopping the 3rd World War. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.16 

Subject: Stop War against Iraq for the World?s Peace 

1) Developed Powerful Countries to stop the War against Iraq, which can cause of next 3rd World War any time. 

2) UN to make strong action to stop the War against Iraq or UN will break any time. 

3) World Community should start Peaceful Demonstrations immediately against War on Iraq otherwise 6-Billion People will become the victim of worst Economic Crisis. 

4) Developed Powerful Countries after winning the War against Iraq, will be engaged in long Gorilla War next 5,10 or 20 years which will destroy their Defense and Economic Power. 

5) If the present War against Iraq continue 100% Suicidal Attacks can take place in Revenge. 

6) To stop the present Iraq War, it is Agha Dilbar?s Great Peace Plan UN Peace Force goes in Iraq immediately for World Peace. 

7) In case War against Iraq continue, there can be 100% Increase World Terrorism and Suicide Attacks which can cause the complete destruction of International Economy 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.17 

Subject: World Community must help War Effected, Injured Iraqis 

1) Agha Dilbar appeals to UN, Head of States, World Red Cross that on humanitarian grounds practical steps should be taken to help thousands of War Effected Iraqis. 

2) World Community should send Doctors, Nurses and Medicines to Iraq on large scale and on Urgent Basis. 

3) Immediate Food is needed for thousands of War Effected Iraqis. 

4) Immediate steps should be taken for provision of Drinking Water to Hundred of Thousands of People in War affected Iraqis. 

5) UN and Red Cross Aid distributing Teams should be immediately sent to Iraq. 

6) Human Rights Missions should be sent to Iraq inspect, weather Prisoners of War are being dealt according to Geneva Convention or not. 

7) UN Network should be immediately established in Iraq for distribution of Aid, Medicines, Food, Drinking Water and Tents etc. 

8) Agha Dilbar specially appeals to all Muslim Countries and International Welfare NGO?S that immediate help to Iraqis be given in shape of Food, Medicines, and Tents etc. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.18 

Subject: Collation Forces after ceasefire in Iraq must go back to their homeland, in other case Collation Forces after conquering Iraq will back to their countries with fifty thousand Dead bodies (Research by Agha Dilbar) 

1) After horrible and dreadful bombardment of Collation Forces in Iraq the worst sentiments of International Community can take place against Collation Forces all over the World. 

2) Continuous horrible and dreadful War in Iraq will cause deaths of 5 Lakes Iraqis and fifty thousand Collation Forces in a long Gorilla War. 

3) Agha Dilbar advise Collation Forces they should not conquers Iraq for Iraqi Oil, in this way they can loose their Defense Power and Economy. 

4) Collation Forces can conquers Iraq after killing 5-Laks Iraqis, in conquencies, 100% Suicide Attacks can burst throughout the World against Collation Forces. 

5) Collation Forces decision to double their army in Iraq for their victory will prove them a next Vietnam War. 

6) Collation Forces, keep in mind that Palestine, Chechnya, Kashmir, Afghanistan and Iraq cannot solve with brute force, in this way 9/11 type incidences can take place against Collation Forces all over the World. 

7) Above-mentioned international disputes, Collation Forces should solve these disputes with the help of UN Peace Force, through Friendship, Progress and Prosperity. 

E-mail<aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s urgent Peace Letter No.19 

Subject: According the rule of Might is Right, Colation Forces conquered Iraq and than threatened Syria,Iran and North Korya. 

1) Colation Forces are blaming Syria,Iran and North Korya to collecting Weapons of Mass Destruction and Terrorism. 

2) Now Colation Forces have started horrible and dreadful planning to attack Syria and than Iran for their oil Resources interest. 

3) UN can become helpless, if Collation Forces kept on capturing many weak and undeveloped countries one by one. 

4) Collation Forces want to make slave all the countries of the World with the new Jungle Law. 

5) World Community should stop such Colation Forces to UN Peace Force as strongest force of the World. 

6) Peace Loving people of the World should solve their disputes not with brute force and terrorism. They should solve their differences through Friendship Progress and Prosperity with the practical help of UN Peace Force. 

E-mail<aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.20 

Subject: The dream of Colation Forces to enforces Law of Jungle in World through use of power/cruelty will be resisted by World Community, as people all over the World have arisen and by becoming united they will crush Collation Forces in Iraq. 

1) For capturing oil resources of Iraq, the Collation Forces have started aggression and worst bombing. People all over the World should condemn it. 

2) The aggression and cruelty, which the Collation Forces have started in Iraq, is a plan to enslave the poor and weak nations. The World Community should take practical steps to stop this in Iraq. 

3) Agha Dilbar advises the Collation Forces that World can be conquered through Friendship, Progress and Prosperity instead of aggression and cruelty. 

4) The dangerous plan of Collation Forces to dissolve UN, which they have prepared under influence of force, barbarity and cruelty, UN should resist it with the help of World Community. 

5) The Collation Forces, for capturing oil resources of Iraq have started mass killings of thousands of Iraqis. Iraqi soil will revenge it and the World Super Power will get humiliating defeat like Russians in Iraq. 

6) World Community must condemn the false propaganda of Collation Forces that they are doing it for freedom of Iraqi people. 

7) The Collation Forces must remember that in retaliation to state terrorism against Philistine People, a tragic incident like suicide attack of 9/11 took place. It is possible that in revenge of aggression in Afghanistan and Iraq, many such like incidents may reoccur and never ending process may start. 

E-mail<aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar's Urgent Peace Letter No.21

Subject: The Colation Forces throgh massive War Power trying to Enslave of Poor World . How to Stop them?

1) Recently the Collation Forces have started War in the name of Iraqi Freedom its only solution is that the World Community by macking a UN Peace Force the most powerful body should take immediate steps to control the plot of Collation Forces for starting 3rd World War.

2) The World Community, through powerful media,ie Radio,TV Internet,Newespapers, Magazines,should start media propoganda for Public Openion building.

3) The World Community through Economic Bycot of Collation Forces, should hit their Economies through Media.

4) The War Crimes of Colation Forces in Iraq should be made public through Media.

5) The World Community should move to Intl Court of Justice against Collation Forces for damage to

Iraq, People of Iraq and for withdrawal from Iraq.

6)The Poor Countries, especially those with Oil Resources who will be First Targets of imperialist motives of Collation Forces, should start compaign through UN and other international Fourms for their immediate withdrawal and establishing Democratic Govt in Iraq.

Agha Dilbar's Urgent Peace Letter No.22

Subject: A new plan by Agha Dilbar tO curb World Terrorism, Sucidal Attacks and for permanant restoration of Peace.

1)The present strategy of Colation Forces to fight against World Terrorism and for stopping of Suicidal Attacks by attacking on Poor Countries, is resulting in further Terrorisim.

2)The sufferings people of Poor Countries, massave killings of their innocent people, loss of proprities and source of livings is making them acustomened to Suicidal Attacks.

3)This strategy of Collation Forces to attack on Poor Countries one by one in the name of curbing Terrorism , may result outbrake of 3rd World Warat any time.

4)The Collation Forces must remember that their continuous attacks on Poor Countries are generating Booldy Rebellions, Civil Wars and long Gorella Wars with possibility of devastating World Economy.

5)According to Agha Dilbar's Great Peace Plan , the Collation Forces and all countries of the World should hand over their Army High Commaned to UN Peace Force.

6)According to this Great Peace Plan proposed strongest UN Peace Force of the World should resolve International Disputes(As such Kashmir,Phalstine,Chechannia.Afghanistan and Ariq etc.)through Friendship Progress and Prosperity instead of Military Actions for curbing Terrorism and Suicidal Attack

Email <aghadilbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.23

Subject: Agha Dilbar?s new plan "United States of the World" should immediately adopt this Plan for Defense of Poor Nations and Welfare of their People.

1) The World Community with the help of France, Germany, Russia, Japan, China, other European, Ashian, Arab, African, States should form an Institution like Nato and European Union.

2) The Headquarter of this proposed Institution (USW) should be based at France or Germany and its Head should be elected annually through voting of Member States.

3) This Institution (USW) will take all actions including Military, Economic, Industrial, Agricultural, Commercial, Educational and Cultural under the Principles of UN.

4) USW will ensure Regional Safety and Defense of its Member States.

5) USW will take immediate and practical steps for assurance of Single Currency.

6) By abolishing Travel Restrictions, USW will encourage Tourism among Member States.

7) USW will encourage Free Trade by abolishing Tariffs.

8) For Economic, Industrial Agrialculcural Commercial and Educational Development of its Poor Member States, USW will provide technology and concessional (@1%)Long Term Loans.

9) USW will establish Schools, Colleges, Universties, Hospitals, Sports Complexes, Motor Ways, Dams, Canals and heavy Industries in its Poor Member States.

10) USW will take measures to control Environmental Pollution in its Member States.

11) USW will resolve Regional Disputes of its Member States through Table Talk, Friendship, Pogress, Prosperity instead of War and State Terrorism.

12) USW will take steps for reduction of Armaments and Atomic Weapons throughout the World.

13) The Member States of USW will establish common banks, Airlines and Shipping Companies.

14) For making Brotherhood among USW member States, Govt Level concessions will be provided to Cultural Groups for Traveling, Hoteling and Entertainment Shows.

E-mail:<aghadilbar@hotmail.com>

Agha Dilbar?s Urgent Peace Letter No.24

Subject: Collation Forces should remember that by their conquest of Poor Countries People of the World, instead of getting Peace, will become victim of Suicide Attacks. 

1) By following Agha Dilbar?s principles of Friendship, Progress and Prosperity the World Community can establish permanent Peace in the World.

2) Instead of relying on Supper Powers, the World Community should Hand Over, Command Forces of all countries to UN Peace Force, after making it the Mightiest War Power.In this way the UN should be the Globle Village Supper Power.

3) USA, UK, Russia, India and Israel must remember that use of indiscriminate and continues State Force in Afghanistan, Iraq, Chechynia, Kashmir and Palestine will result in 100% Increase in Terrorism instead of Curbing it.

4) The Collation Forces must forgo their dream of Capturing the World through use of Force-they should remember that in this age of I.T.When world is becoming A Global Village, the outdated rule of "Might is Right" of previous 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th Centuries will not successes. 

5) I Agha Dilbar sincerely believe that only by adopting Principles of Friendship, Progress and Prosperity the Dream of World peace will become a Reality after 5,10,50,100 years.

6) The Collation Forces should not be mistaken that they will become a cause of Peace and Progress after Conquering Poor Countries one by one; rather Suicide Attacks World Over including Collation Countries, long Gorilla Wars will destroy World Economy.

7) Collation Forces also remember that controlling World Terrorism by enslaving Poor Countries (as Afghanistan and Iraq etc) Through War Machinery, killing of thousands innocent people, destruction of cities and villages and eliminating employment sources, a new greater series of Suicide Attacks has started which can be controlled by abandoning use of Brute Force. 

8)World Community, Collation Forces, UN and Head of States all over the World powerful media, Radio, TV, Inter Net, Newspapers, Magazines should propagate Principles of Friendship, Progress and Prosperity for establishing of World Peace.

9) Collation Forces must remember that capturing Poor Countries one by one will start 3rd World War. Collation Forces consists of 2 Million Army, Fighters, Aircrafts, Navel Ships, Airfields, Latest Destructive Armaments, is destroying World Economy. In retaliation to this, a never-ending chain of Suicide Attacks will start engulfing the whole World Economy, especially in USA, Europe, Africa, Middle East, Asia and Australia. 

10) UN must stop This Indiscriminate Use OF Force By Collation Forces otherwise it will have to face a fate like its predecessor the "League of Nations".

11) The Collation Forces should not forget that naked use of Military Force the World Over is 100 times destroying World Peace and Economy. For get rid of World Terrorism and Suicidal Attacks, only Principles of Friendship, Progress and Prosperity can make make this World A Haven.

Agha Dilbar's Urgent Peace Letter No.25 

Subject: The World Community has started march towards Peace in the light of Agha Dilbar's Principles of Friendship,Progress and Prosperity.

1) It is a plesent news that Pakistan-India are preparing for talks to resolve Kashmir Dispute.

2) Israel and Phalistine are going to hold talks as per President Bush 's Road Map instead of War and Sucidal Attacks.

3) Russia has also agreed for talks with Chechnean Gorilla Fighters.

4) Keeping in view these facts and for strenghting peace process in the World.Agha Dilbar Appeals to Collation Forces to gradually withdraw from Afghanistan and Iraq and under an International Agreement,UN Peace Forces should be deployed there till Normalcy.

5)India,Israel,Russia,USA And UK must remember that as per research of Agha Dilbar in present Global Village Age, Peace is not possible by Conqering weak countries on the pretext of Weapons of Mass Destruction and by State Terrorism ,Mass Killings and destruction of Means of Production, rather use of Brutal Force will increase Suicide Attacks 100 Times resulting in failure of World Economy. 

E-mail <aghadlbar@hotmail.com> 

Agha Dilbar's Urgent Peace Letter No.26

Subject:UN Peace Force should be Deplaced till Restoration of Peace in Internationally Disputed Arias of Kashmir,Palestaine,Cheychnia,Afghanistan and Iraq.

1) As per Research of Agha Dilbar for stopage of Gueralla War in Internationally Disputed Arias like Kashmir,Palestine,Chechnia,Afghanistan and Iraq and for fully resolving other disputes. These Disputed Areas should be put under control of UN Peace Force.

2) After taking control these disputed areas and bringing Army,Police and Administration under Command of UN Peace Force should resolve all issues through Table Talk in the light of Principles of Friendship,Progress ans Prosperity.

3) UN Peace Force after taking charge of Kashmir, Palestine and Chechnia, will order Indian,Israili and Russian Armies to Vacate these Disputed Areas.

4) Similary it will Order Collation Forces to Withdraw from Afghanistan and Iraq and go back to their Home land.

5) UN Peace Force , after taking Control,will Conduct Free and Fair Elections Afghanistan and Iraq withen 2-years and will Handover Govt to Winning Political Parties . However UN Peace Force will remain there till 3-year for full Restoration of Peace.

6) According to Proposed Plan of Agha Dilbar ,UN Peace FOrce will remain in deployed in Kashmir,Palestine and Chechneyia for 5-years after signing of Peace Agrements Disputed Parties Groups and it is expected Normalcy will return that Period.

7) It is hoped that UN Peace Force will Succeed getting rid of Long Gurella Wars and Sucide Attacks in the lights o f Golden Principles of Friendship, Progress and Prosperity with the help of UN Peace Force. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com>

Agha Dilbar,s Urgent Peace letter No.27

Subject: UN Security Council, through a Resulation for permanent World Peace will Order to Reduce 75% in the Defence Budgets of all Countries.

1) UN at the International Level will Order the folling Solid Steps to maintain Peace and the Removal of Poverty.

2)Under UN Orders, all the Nations of the World will Reannounce Offically in the Reduction of their Defence Budgets 75%. 

3)Under suggested Defence Bugget Plan , all the States will Reduce 75% in their Armies Sea ,Air War Fare in the Production and Buying of Ammunation.

According to Suggested Agha Dilbar,s Revolutionary Plan, all the Nations will be Bound to Spend their Savings made by Reduction of 75% in their Defence Budget in the following Plans.

A)According to UN Order all the States will be bound to Provide Free Medical Aid Facialities to each and every Person.

B)According to UN Orders all the Govts. will Provide Free Education Facialties to each Person in future.

C)According to UN Orders all the Govts.will Provide UN Employment Allounce to each Person till the age of 60-Years.

D)According to UN Order all the Govts. will Provide Old Age Allounce to each Person after 60-Years till Death.

E)According to UN Order all the Govts. will Provide 20-Years Soft Bank Housing Loans to each Person.

F)According to UN Orders all the Govts. will Provide 1%Interest Bank Loans for Trade,Agriculture and Industrial Projects. 

E-mail:aghadilbar@hotmail.com

Agha Dilbar,s Urgent Peace Letter No.28

Subject:Throughtout the world, UN should install,Oitonomous Instiutions, UN Privatize Commissions (UNPC)to remove Poverty,Uneployment and Corruption.

!)To Privatise all the Govt Institutions in a transparent manner,under the following rules and regulations Atonomous Institutions will be established.

2)Suggested Institutions (UNPC)in all the countries will preform their duties as autonomous bodies.

3)All the Executive Employiees of suggested institutions (UNPC)will be Recurited on Merit from other countries.

4)Suggested Institutions (UNPC)during the next 5-years shall Privatize all the Banks,Water and Power,Big Industrial Projects Health,Education,Agriculture and City Corporations etc in a transparent manner.

5)Throught the world all the countries will not Privatize their Defence.Currency and Teli Communication.And they will run under Govt Countrol.

6)Suggested Institutions (UNPC)shall be Privatize on such terms and conditions that they will have to carry the same Businesses.In case of violation of Rule,UNPC wiil take back these Institutions without any payment.

7)Suggested Institutions (UNPC)shall be bound to sell all the Govt and Semi-Govt Institutions through their Stock Exchange in Shares.

8)To bring forth the Suggested Institutions (UNPC)Decisions shall be taking by Voting in the UN General Assembly.

9)By establishing the Suggested Institutions (UNPC)at the International Level,the Privatization of all Govt and Semi-Govt will help in alleviating the Poverty, Unemployment and Corruption all over the world. 

E-mail <aghadilbar@hotmail.com>

Agha Dilbar's Urgent Peace Letter No.29

Subject: According to UN security Council Order, all countries would Allocate Two Persent(2%)of their National Bugget for UN Development Fund (UNDF).

1) Suggested UNDF would be used for the following Development Progreammes to Eradicate Poverty and Unemployment from the Developing,Backward and Poor Countries.

2)Through UNDF Dams,Canals,Railways,Motorways,Heavy Industry and Fivestar Hotels will be Built in the Backward and Poor Countries.

3) UNDF will be spent on Oil, Gas and Minerl Projects in Backward and Poor Countries.

4)UNDF will be spent on Schools,Colleges,Professional Institudes,Universties,Hospitals and Sports Complexes will be constructed in Backward and Poor Countries.

5) Under Suggested UNDF Latest agriculture Farms,Poultary Farmms,Cattle Farms,Fish Farms and Export Processing Zones would be built in Backward and Poor Countries.

6)Suggested UNDF would be spent on Population Planning in Backward and Poor Countries.

7)Suggested UNDF would be install Airways,Banks and Shipping Companies in Backward and Poor Countries.

8)Under UNDF following Basik Industries would be installed in Backward and Poor Countries.

a.Steel Mills 2.Car,Bus,Truck,Tractor industries 3.Textile Industry 4.Tyres,Tubes and Shoes Industry 5.Medicine Laboritories 6.Engineering Industry 7.Electronic Industry 8.Computor Industry 9.Dry Milk Industry 10.Tin Pack Fruit Industry.

Please Note

Donate Funds for International Peace Compaign

For conveying massage of Peace through Friendship,Progress and Prosperity by International Revolution Movement in a better way 1000 times more, we need Funds on Urgent Bases. Please send your Donations to

Bank account:Allied Bank of Pakistan,Lahore

Branch :ABL,Allama Iqbal Town,Lahore-0688

Account:Agha dilbar

Account No.001100-5809-2

Agha Dilbar founder

International Revolution Movement

64-neelum, Allama Iqbal Town, Lahore (Pakistan)

Ph: 0092-42-7830084, Mobile: 0300-4370258

E-mail<aghadilbar@hotmail.com>

Thanks for using this servce.

Please E-mail these peace letters to your friends,

for the welfare of Humanity.

(Thank you for your participation.We appriciate your contribution for Humanity)



---------------------------------
Do you Yahoo!?
The New Yahoo! Shopping - with improved product search



