docno="lists-004-0539632"
received="Sat Feb  1 08:02:07 2003"
isoreceived="20030201130207"
sent="Sat, 1 Feb 2003 13:02:05 +0000"
isosent="20030201130205"
name="Ayanda Nkuhlu"
email="motembe@ecplaza.net"
subject="Urgent Assistant Needed"
id="200302011302.IAA12527@tux.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:ietf-charsets@w3.org


1st February 2003
 
                           Urgent Assistant Needed
 
 
 May I through this medium seek for your co-operation and assistance in a 
 business transaction that requires high confidentiality. I am Mr. Ayanda Nkuhlu,
 a native of Cape Town in South Africa and I work in the South 
 African Department of Minerals & Energy. First and foremost, I apologize 
 for using this medium to reach you for a transaction/business of this 
 magnitude, but this is due to some confidentiality and the prompt access this medium 
 affords. I obtained your contact through trade and email listings over 
 here at the department of trade, do not be alarmed over this as this form of 
 contact is part of the regular business ethics over here. 
 
 I have the mandate of two of my senior colleagues to search discreetly and 
 
 diligently for a foreign partner that could assist us concerning a 
 business matter which will be of mutual benefit to all. We do require your 
 assistance in the transfer of US$15.5M (Fifteen Million, Five Hundred Thousand 
 USDollars) abroad. 
 
 The amount US$15.5M represents an over-invoiced contract amount that was 
 executed for my Ministry by a mining company, which has since gone into 
 liquidation. Although the actual contract amount was paid to the company, 
 the over-invoiced amount of US$15.5M has since been lying in the 
 Ministry's escrow account at the Reserve Bank of South Africa pending proper proof of 
 claim. We are privy to this classified information by virtue of our 
 position in the ministry. We have successfully secured payment approval on it. 
 
 More so, we are handicapped in the very circumstances, as the South 
 African Civil Service "Code of Conduct" does not allow us to operate offshore 
 accounts hence your importance in this whole transaction. 
 
 Please note your area of specialisation is not a hindrance to the 
 successful Execution of this transaction. Endeavour to contact me immediately through  
 my private mail: jomositule@consultant.com to confirm whether or not you are
 interested in this transaction, it will enable me to scout for another 
 foreign partner to carry out this deal, if the latter is the case. 
 
 Lastly, I want to assure you that my partners and myself are in a position 
 to make the payment of this claim possible provided you can give us very 
 Strong assurance and guarantee that our share will be secured. I implore 
 you to keep this confidential, as you are at liberty NOT to be a part of this 
 if you so desire. 
 
 Once again remember that time is of the essence in this transaction. 
 
 I await in anticipation of your fullest co-operation. 
 
 Yours Faithfully, 
 
 Ayanda Nkuhlu 
motembe@ecplaza.net
 
 



