docno="lists-082-3658246"
received="Thu Oct  1 14:29:17 1998"
isoreceived="19981001182917"
sent="Thu, 1 Oct 1998 11:29:09 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="19981001182909"
name="Scott Luebking"
email="phoenixl@netcom.com"
subject="New 3D Browser Reads Both VRML and SVR Formats"
id="199810011829.LAA04867@netcom16.netcom.com"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org

Hi,
Here's an interesting article.
Scott

---------------------------------------------------------------------

SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Oct. 1, 1998--Interactive 3D
specialist Superscape today announced the launch of Viscape Universal,
the company's 3D Web browser for exploring both VRML and Superscape's
own SVR enabled 3D Web pages.

The product is now available for free download from
http://www.superscape.com. Viscape Universal is also available for
corporate licensing.

Viscape Universal is the industry's first interactive 3D browser which
allows users to view both VRML97 and SVR files, the two most common file
formats for Web-based Interactive 3D. Users can now browse not only the
Virtual World Wide Web (vwww.com), the hub of over 550 interactive 3D
worlds built in SVR file format, but also the hundreds of pages of VRML
content on the Internet. The product works with both Microsoft Internet
Explorer 4.0 and Netscape Communicator 4.0.

-0- *T

Key features of Viscape Universal:

--   intuitive navigation system requiring no user set-up for ease of

     use

--   advanced graphics renderer that runs on all systems using

     Microsoft DirectX

--   enhances VRML content using Microsoft Directshow

--   supports fully-spatialized sound

--   fast frame rates on standard hardware

--   uses fitted accelerator cards for optimum performance

--   compliance checking on VRML files for exploring more advanced

     applications with sophisticated behaviors

--   supports Java and ECMAScript

*T -0-

"Viscape Universal received a great deal of interest when we first
announced the early design concepts at this year's VRML conference in
Monterey, California," said Steve Timmerman, Superscape's VP of
Marketing. "Since then we have dedicated many months of development time
to ensure that Viscape Universal delivers an elegant yet robust means of
exploring 3D content on the Web. Early reaction from a number of
Superscape's major industry partners has been very encouraging.

"Users can now access all the substantive Interactive 3D content on the
Web with a single browser. We believe that Viscape Universal will prove
to be a valuable tool not only for those who wish to view 3D content,
but also for organizations who wish to introduce this type of
technology, under the terms of a licensing agreement, into their own
information systems."

For images of Viscape Universal, please visit the "Application Images"
section in Superscape's Imagebank at http://imagebank.superscape.com.

-0- *T

Notes for Editors:

     Superscape leads the market in Interactive 3D software, providing both custom project services and boxed software products:

1. CUSTOM APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT.

Four project teams in the U.S. and U.K. provide solutions ranging from
simple content creation to complex stand alone 3D applications. Over 150
complete projects have already been delivered over the last 3 years --
ranging in value from $10,000 to over $4 million.

2. AUTHORING TOOLS, BROWSERS AND STAND ALONE RUNTIME ENGINES.

Developed and published by Superscape, these products are available via
technology licenses and as boxed products. Superscape has been
publishing Interactive 3D products for over 11 years. Superscape VR plc
was founded in 1983, has U.S. headquarters in Santa Clara, California
and is traded on the London Stock Exchange.

The company has software installed in more than thirty countries
worldwide, for clients including Intel, CompuServe, Nortel, Motorola,
Whirlpool, LEGO, British Airways, Land Rover, NEC, and NTT.

The Superscape family of interactive 3D products includes:

--   VRT. The company's award-winning authoring software for the

     enterprise marketplace, currently in release 5;

--   3D Webmaster. Designed for professional Webmasters and developers

     for the creation of interactive 3D Web sites and for adding 3D

     pages to existing 2D sites;

--   Do 3D. A fun, easy-to-use, home-creativity product for building

     interactive 3D environments;

--   3D Control. An ActiveX control that allows developers to improve

     integration of their 3D applications with other developments

     tools;

--   Viscape Universal. A unique browser plug-in that allows viewing

     of both SVR and VRML 3D worlds;

--   Visualiser. A 3D viewer for stand-alone applications created
     using Superscape VRT Superscape supports multiple 3D Internet
formats, including SVR and VRML. *T -0-      Superscape also pioneered
and sponsors the Virtual World Wide Web (vwww.com), an expanding network
of over 500 independently owned 3D Web pages. For more information,
visit the Superscape Web site (www.superscape.com) or the Superscape
Image Bank (http://imagebank.superscape.com/; for screen shots).

     --30--slt/sf* ahc/sf

CONTACT: 

Superscape

Nancy S. Hart, 408/969-0534 

(Media Relations U.S.)

nhart@superscape.com          



