docno="lists-005-5122730"
received="Tue Mar 30 06:59:09 2004"
isoreceived="20040330115909"
sent="Tue, 30 Mar 2004 12:05:07 +0200"
isosent="20040330100507"
name="Dr. Kwesi Achapong"
email="drkwesiachapong@yahoo.com"
subject="Compliment of the Day"
id="20040330115838.11075A15EC@frink.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



FROM DR. Kwesi Achapong
Director, Project Implementation,
Ghana National Petroleum Corporation,
Accra Office Complex,
Accra - Ghana
URGENT RESPONSE.

ATTEN:SIR.

I regret this informal mode of contact to your esteemed personality , it was initiated out of my outright desire to enter into a mutual business relationship with you.

I obtained your contact from a reliable source on a business listing information service during my search for a investment
opportunities in your country and after due consultations with my opinion adviser, I decided to contact you believing that by the grace of the Almighty God, you will accept me to be your partner in a Business Venture.

I also have concluded several level of Management and Business Finance Programs and posses an encouraging
educational background.I have decided to seek a confidential co-operation with you in the execution of a the deal described
here under for the benefit of all parties .

Within the Ministry of Petroleum Resources where I work as a Director, Project Implementation and with the cooperation of
four other top officials we have in our possession as overdue payment bills totalling Ten Million United states Dollars (US$10,000,000.00) which we want to transfer abroad with assistance and co-operation of a foreign company
/individual to receive the said fund on our behalf or a reliable foreign non-company account to receive such funds.

Moreso, we are handicapped in the circumstances as the Ghana Civil Service Code of Conduct does not allow us to
operate offshore account hence your importance in the whole transaction.

The amount represents the balance of the total contract value executed on behalf of my Ministry by a foreign contracting firm which we the officials over-invoiced deliberately. Though the actual contract cost have been paid to the original contractor, leaving the balance in the tune of the said amount which we have in principles gotten approval
 to remit by Telegraphi Transfer (T.T) to foreign bank account .

we have include our bills for approvals with the co-operation of some officials  from the Federal Ministry of Finance and the  Bank of Ghana (BOG) We are seeking your assistance in providing a vital account or any virgin bank account into which we can remmit this money by acting  as our main partner and trustee.

This we can do by swapping of account and changing of beneficiary and other  forms of documentation upon application for claim to reflect the payment and  approvals to be secured on behalf of you.

This processes being pre-arranged with the principal trustee of the original  contractor and with the consent of the original contractor. I have the authority  of my partners involved to propose that should you be willing to assist us in the transaction your share of the sum will be 30% of the US$10m million, 60% for us and 10% for taxation and miscellaneous expenses.

The business itself is 100% safe on your part . Also your area ofspecialization is  not a hindrance to the successful execution of this transaction.


Thanks for your cooperation.
Yours faithfully,

DR. Kwesi Achapong



