docno="lists-042-5660148"
received="Tue Mar 25 19:57:49 2003"
isoreceived="20030326005749"
sent="Tue, 25 Mar 2003 16:54:24 -0800"
isosent="20030326005424"
name="Jim Whitehead"
email="ejw@cse.ucsc.edu"
subject="WG Last Call: Ordered Collections Protocol"
id="AMEPKEBLDJJCCDEJHAMIAEJJGMAA.ejw@cse.ucsc.edu"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:"WebDAV"<w3c-dist-auth@w3.org>



** WORKING GROUP LAST CALL FOR COMMENTS ***

This is a final call for comments from the WebDAV Working Group on the
WebDAV Ordered Collections Protocol, draft-ietf-webdav-ordering-protocol-07.
Please review this specification, and make comments to the WebDAV WG mailing
list, w3c-dist-auth@w3.org.

From the abstract of the -07 specification

  This specification extends the WebDAV Distributed Authoring Protocol
  to support server-side ordering of collection members. Of particular
  interest are orderings that are not based on property values, and so
  cannot be achieved using a search protocol's ordering option and
  cannot be maintained automatically by the server. Protocol elements
  are defined to let clients specify the position in the ordering of
  each collection member, as well as the semantics governing the
  ordering.

This last call for comments period begins immediately, and ends Sunday,
April 27, 2003, at midnight, US Pacific time.  This allows over four weeks
for review of the specification.

The specification can be accessed at:

Text (this is the normative version)
http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-webdav-ordering-protocol-07.t
xt

HTML:
http://www.greenbytes.de/tech/webdav/draft-ietf-webdav-ordering-protocol-07.
html

XML:
http://www.greenbytes.de/tech/webdav/draft-ietf-webdav-ordering-protocol-07.
xml

At the end of the last call review period, a new draft may be issued.
Depending on the scope of changes introduced between the -07 and -08
versions, there will either be an immediate call for rough consensus (very
few changes), or a second last call review period (significant changes).
Once the document represents the rough consensus of the working group, Lisa
and I will submit this document to the Internet Engineering Steering Group
(IESG) for their approval.  IESG review involves a (minimum) two week public
last call for comments period.  This IESG-initiated last call period is in
addition to the working group last call period.

This document is intended to be a "Proposed Standard".  Quoting from RFC
2026, "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3":

   The entry-level maturity for the standards track is
   "Proposed Standard". A specific action by the IESG
   is required to move a specification onto the standards
   track at the "Proposed Standard" level.

   A Proposed Standard specification is generally stable,
   has resolved known design choices, is believed to be
   well-understood, has received significant community
   review, and appears to enjoy enough community interest
   to be considered valuable.  However, further experience
   might result in a change or even retraction of the
   specification before it advances.

   Usually, neither implementation nor operational experience
   is required for the designation of a specification as a Proposed
   Standard.  However, such experience is highly desirable, and
   will usually represent a strong argument in favor of a
   Proposed Standard designation.

Many details on the procedures used to develop an IETF standard can be found
in RFC 2026, available at: http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2026.txt

If there are any procedural questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to
contact me, or raise an issue on the list.

Notes:

1) Issues raised during the last call period will be resolved individually,
rather than lumped together and dealt with as a whole.

2) If you've been waiting for a "stable" version of the specification before
performing a review, wait no longer.  This is it. Please review the
specification NOW in order to ensure your input gets included.

- Jim Whitehead
Co-Chair, IETF WebDAV Working Group



