docno="lists-038-15483298"
received="Mon Dec 21 20:07:03 1998"
isoreceived="19981222010703"
sent="Mon, 21 Dec 1998 20:05:37 -0500"
isosent="19981222010537"
name="Randall Severy"
email="severy@cyberteams.com"
subject="ANN: CyberTeams WebDAV server available for testing"
id="199812220106.RAA27305@goose.prod.itd.earthlink.net"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-dist-auth@w3.org

Hello everyone!

     CyberTeams is pleased to announce the availability of a WebDAV-enabled
server for interoperability testing by members of this Working Group.  We
have added WebDAV support to our web content management products, WebSite
Director (WSD) and WebSite Director Lite (WSDLite).  One of our web hosting
partners, Fort Wayne Internet, has provided web space for our WebDAV test
server using WSDLite at http://www.fwi.com:8080.  Since our WebSite
Director Lite product supports immediate updates to web site content it
provides an easier testing environment of the WebDAV protocol.  In addition
to the basic level of WebDAV support included in WSDLite, our premier
product WebSite Director also integrates WebDAV support into WSD's workflow
management and web content version control capabilities.

     To access our WebDAV test server you will need a login username and
password.  You can request a login username and password from a request
form available on our WebDAV testing page at:

                     http://www.cyberteams.com/webdav

     Click on the "Request WebDAV Access" link on that page and fill in the
form to request a username and password.  We will activate the username and
password you supply and send you a confirmation of access by return e-mail.

     Once you have received a login username and password, you can access
our WebDAV test server by pointing your WebDAV client at
http://www.fwi.com:8080.  Our WebDAV support is provided by a custom Apache
module that interfaces directly with WSDLite, which normally runs as a CGI
application on the web server.  Our WebDAV server supports
draft-ietf-webdav-protocol-09 including all Class 1 requirements.

     In addition to access via the WebDAV protocol, the WebSite Director
Lite software running on our WebDAV test server can be used in its normal
mode of operation as a CGI application.  You can use WSDLite to verify the
results of WebDAV methods by exploring the contents of the web server
filesystem after a series of WebDAV operations.  You can use the same
username and password used for WebDAV access to access WSDLite on our
WebDAV test server by following the "Enter WebSite Director lite" link on
our WebDAV testing page at http://www.cyberteams.com/webdav.

     Since there are few WebDAV clients currently available, most of our
own testing of our WebDAV support has been through command-line access.  We
tested earlier versions of our WebDAV support with WebDAV Explorer (Jim saw
a demo of that support in Redmond) before changing to the new XML
namespaces.  We have tried Internet Explorer 5, but have not been any more
successful than the other interoperability tests with IE5 already reported
here.  We have recently begun testing our WebDAV server against sitecopy
with partial success.


     We would like to hear any results of any testing any of you can do
against our WebDAV server.  Please send any testing feedback, problem
reports, suggestions, or anything else to do with our WebDAV test site to
"webdav@cyberteams.com".  If you would like more information about
CyberTeams or our products, visit our web site at http://www.cyberteams or
send e-mail to "info@cyberteams.com".

Regards,

Randall Severy
President and CEO, CyberTeams, Inc.


Randall Severy    severy@cyberteams.com    http://www.cyberteams.com/severy
CyberTeams, Inc.    info@cyberteams.com    http://www.cyberteams.com
Mt. Airy, MD
(301) 829-6144          "Building effective teams in cyberspace"
1-888-832-5575



