docno="lists-070-0206927"
received="Thu Jan 24 11:26:26 2002"
isoreceived="20020124162626"
sent="Thu, 24 Jan 2002 10:26:20 -0600"
isosent="20020124162620"
name="Gregg Vanderheiden"
email="GV@TRACE.WISC.EDU"
subject="Members in Good Standing"
id="000901c1a4f3$ddff9f90$ba17a8c0@laptop600"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:"GLWAI Guidelines WG \(GL - WAI Guidelines WG\)"<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


Hi all,  

Thanks for the feedback on the members-in-good-standing list.  

We do need to clarify membership-in-good-standing for WCAG WG, - and
were encouraged to do so by WAI management, in order to move forward
more effectively with the group's agenda and operate more clearly under
W3C process. This message tries to (as briefly as possible) address
concerns raised, and proposes one or two additional mechanisms to
reflect contributions to the WG.  

Note that, as with all W3C work, there is a very broad group of people
contributing to any one document; so "Members in Good Standing" for any
given working group doesn't claim to encompass that whole community of
contributors, and it's possible to not be on the Members in Good
Standing list but still be a significant contributor.

  - For those who have started participating in WCAG WG meetings
recently, sorry for not catching you on the initial listing. We've
already added those that sent a note to either of the Chairs alerting us
that we missed them.

  - For people who start participating more in WCAG WG meetings in the
future, we'll be updating this list on roughly a monthly basis, so you
should get picked up as that occurs. Please let us know if we miss you.

  - If you've had member-in-good-standing status, but need to drop out
of the group for some period of time, please notify us as to the
circumstances. If we don't hear from you, we will try to contact you
before taking your name off of the list, and in any case if you resume
your activity level you'll get back on.  Please note that since we
didn't previously have a members-in-good-standing list, there was
nothing to be removed from, so we presented this as an initial draft
rather than contacting each person in GL about their initial status on
it.

  - For people who for whatever reason are not able to participate in
WCAG WG meetings regularly, and who are occasional-to-frequent
contributors to WCAG WG work via the mailing list, we're adding a
category called "Additional Contributors." We'll draft a first pass at
this, but, as with the members-in-good-standing list, please email the
chairs if you feel you should be on this. Please note though that if
this proves too time-consuming to maintain we will need to drop it.

  - For people who for whatever reason are not able to participate in
WCAG WG meetings regularly, but who contribute regularly on the mailing
list, take on work assignments in coordination with the group, respond
reliably to debate & dialog on WCAG WG work items, and would like to be
considered members in good standing, please notify the chairs and/or
staff contact that you'd like to discuss alternate means of maintaining
membership in good standing, and we will be happy to discuss this with
you.  


Feedback welcome,  


Gregg Vanderheiden,   Co-Chair
Jason White,  Co-Chair
Wendy Chisholm,   W3C Staff Contact


   



