docno="lists-025-6235026"
received="Sun Feb  2 16:29:59 2003"
isoreceived="20030202212959"
sent="Sun, 02 Feb 2003 21:14:23 +0000"
isosent="20030202211423"
name="Howard N Smith"
email="howard.smith@ontology.org"
subject="RE: Yet Another Choreography Specification"
id="5.0.2.1.2.20030202205051.03035ee0@pop3.demon.co.uk"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="Yet Another Choreography Specification"
expires="-1"


To:public-ws-chor@w3.org


I dont think BPML is yet another choreography specification because I think 
the authors have tried to
learn from the theoretical work of others, including the pi-c. I agree 
completely with Bill Flood of Sybase
that:

 >The WS-Chor, in my belief, will only be successful if it takes the high 
road - a defensible position that
 >avoids pitting one vendor approach against another (or for that matter 
one standards organization against
 >another).

That's precisely what bpmi has been trying to do since its inception and 
indeed beforehand. Indeed, it
was part of the charter to root the work in theory. After all, which CIO is 
going to trust a BPMS without
such foundations. Now bpmi is reaching back out to the academic community 
to get more validation.
The success of BPM rests on getting it right, and from initial practical 
results in CSC we have a
strong suspicion BPML is on the right lines. Precisely the same happened 
with data management
and the relational algebra. The relational model would have failed without 
such formalism.

The relationship of BPML to pi-c seems to be as follows. pi-c takes as it's 
first class citizen the
process, by focusing upon concurrent computation and communication as a 
primitive. BPML does
the same. Pi-C represents 20 years of computer science, to identify the 
small(est) set of primitives
from which all possible processes can be expressed, including computational 
processes. CF Physics
elementary particles. The primitives in the pi-c appear in BPML. The body 
of work on pi-c,
notably Milner's book and Sangiorgi's book, are the equivalent of Physics' 
GUT ... and using
that body of work we can show the power of the primitives, and therefore 
the power of BPML.
PI-C processes have some very important properties for processes that are 
meant to represent
business processes. Business processes have many of the attributes Milner 
identified under
the title "mobility". For example:

- the ability for processes to appear as participants in other processes
- the ability to use process idioms, named patterns, within other conversations
- the ability for processes to govern the lifecycle of other processes
- the ability for processes to provide patterns of behavior to which other 
processes can adhere

All these crop up in business modeling all the time.

Asaaf, when could the document you allude to be made available here? That 
way we get
more on the table and more examination of the design?

Howard


Howard Smith/CSC/BPMI.org/bpm3.com



