docno="lists-043-8509656"
received="Mon Sep 30 14:35:39 2002"
isoreceived="20020930183539"
sent="Wed, 09 Jan 1980 10:34:47"
isosent="19800109153447"
name="BEN"
email="benchumas@inbox.net"
subject="WE CAN WORK TOGETHER"
id="200209301834.OAA13329@tux.w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-formal-assertion-testbed@w3.org


MR.BEN CHUMAS
STANDARD TRUST BANK PLC
LAGOS NIGERIA

Email:benchumas@inbox.net

Date:September 30,2002.

Dear sir,

First, I must solicit your confidence in this transaction; this is by virtue of its nature as being utterly CONFIDENTIAL and TOP SECRET. Though I know that a transaction of this magnitude will make any one apprehensive and worried, but I amassuring you that all will be well at the end of the day. We have decided to contact you due to the urgency of this transaction, as we have been reliably informed of your discreteness and ability in transactions of this nature.

Let me start by first introducing myself properly to you. I am BEN CHUMAS ,a director with the STANDARD TRUST Bank Nigeria Plc. Lagos. I came to know of you in my private search for a reliable and
reputable person to handle this confidential transaction, which involves the transfer of a huge sum of money to a foreign account requiring maximum confidence.

THE PROPOSITION:

A foreigner, Late Engineer Johnson Creek, an Oil Merchant/Contractor with the Federal Government of Nigeria, until his death Five years ago in a ghastly air crash, banked with us here at Standard Trust Bank
Plc. Lagos, and had a closing balance of US$38.5M (Thirty Eight Million, Five Hundred Thousand United States Dollars) which the bank now unquestionably expects it to be claimed by any available foreign next-of-kin of the Late beneficiary or alternatively be donated to a discredited trust fund for arms and ammunition at a military war college here in Nigeria. Fervent valuable efforts are being made by the Standard Trust Bank to get in touch with any of the Creek family or relatives but without success.

It is because of the perceived possibility of not being able to locate any of Late Engr. Johnson Creek's next-of-kin (he had no known wife and children) that the management under the influence of our chairman and member of the board of directors, that an arrangement be made for the funds to be declared UNCLAIMABLE and subsequently be donated to the Trust Fund for Arms and Ammunition to further enhance the course of war in Africa and the world in general.

In order to avert this negative development, some of my trusted colleagues and I now seek your permission to have you stand as a next-of-kin to Late Engr.Johnson Creek so that the funds US$38.5M would be released and paid into your bank account as the beneficiary?s next-of-kin. All documents and proves to enable you get this fund will be carefully worked out and more so we are assuring you of a 100% risk
free involvement. 

Your share stays while the rest would be for my colleagues and myself for investment purpose
s in your country. We have agreed that, the funds will be shared thus, after it has been transferred into your account

1).20% of the money will go to you for acting as the beneficiary of the 
funds.

2).5% will be set aside for reimbursement to both parties for any 
incidental expenses that may be incurred in the course of the transfer.

3).75% to us the originators of the transaction.

If this proposal is OK by you and you do not wish to take undue advantage of the trust, we hope to bestow on you and your company, then kindly get to me immediately via my email:benchumas@inbox.net . Furnishing me with your most confidential telephone,fax number and exclusive bank particulars so that I can use these information to apply for the release and subsequent transfer of the funds in your favour.

Thank you in advance for your anticipated co-operation.

Yours faithfully,

MR.BEN CHUMAS
STANDARD TRUST BANK PLC LAGOS.



