docno="lists-030-0916377"
received="Fri Nov 15 18:53:18 2002"
isoreceived="20021115235318"
sent="Sat, 16 Nov 2002 02:00:00"
isosent="20021116070000"
name="ADE  JOSEPH"
email="adejoseph@fastermail.com"
subject="OFFER   FOR   A   GOOD   BUSINESS   RELATIONSHIP."
id="200211152353.SAA14772@tux.w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:smil-editors@w3.org


Dear Sir,

I am Dr. Ade Joseph, the financial Controller and  
Contract Award Committee Chairman in the National
Electric Power Authority (NEPA) in Lagos, Nigeria. My
colleagues have assigned me to seek for assistance of
a reliable foreigner through whom we can transfer 
the sum of US $35,500,000.00 (Thirty Five Million,
five Hundred Thousand U.S Dollars) which arose from
deliberate over- inflated contract  value for
the General expansion of the Kanji Dam Thermal Station
on behalf of National Electric Power Authority (NEPA)
for increased energy generation to Nigeria
and some other West African Countries. 

The Contract was awarded  in 1998 during the late
General Sanni Abacha regime to an expatriate firm with
the consideration of 10% commission agreement on the
total contract value.  The contract has been completed
and the contractor has long been paid, we are now
left with this US$35,500,000.00 representing the 10%
our own share as agreed presently in the Federal
Government account. 

The favorable political/economic climate in this
country now presented an opportunity 
for this money to be transferred out of the country.

I got your contact from a commercial attached to your
emabassy. This assurance gave me courage to link you
up for this particular transaction, and I hope it will
be of mutual benefit to all of us.

Our contact in the Federal Ministry of Finance have
given us a go a head advice to begin the process of
the remittance, hence we have set in motion
the machinery for the take off of the transaction and
further action will commence immediately we hear from
you. 

We have agreed that after the transfer of the money
into your account, you shall be entitled to
30% of the total amount transferred, while the
remaining 70% will be for us. We decided to give you
this percentage in order to motivate you and also to
let you feel satisfied at the end of this transaction.
The nature of your business is not particularly
relevant for the success of this transaction. All we
require is your willingness to co-operate and
assurance that our own share will be given to us when
this money is transferred into your account. 

All necessary precautions have been taken to ensure a
no risk situation on the sides of both parties and
it is believed that the conclusion of this transaction
will not last more than fourteen (14) working days.


However, we are going to retrieve the whole documents
that will be related to this transaction so that both
parties will be protected after the transfer of the
money into your account.

Since we have no knowledge of business, our plan is to
invest this money into Real Estate, Stocks and we can
also invest in some other profitable business in your
country based on your advice because many of 
our years has been spent as Civil Servant, and we may
likely resign from government service to private
businesses after this money is transferred 
into your Account. 

Please note that this business is strictly
confidential and must not be disclosed to a third
party. This is necessary to avoid disclosure
that may jeopardize the transaction.  Finally, if this
proposal is acceptable to you or if you have any
questions, feel free to contact me on the above E-mail
address.  

You should also send to me your private telephone /
fax numbers and E-mail address for easy and
confidential communication. I will oblige you with
further information if so required.

Best Regards  
Dr. Ade Joseph
NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY 
HEAD OFFICE: MARINA LAGOS.
ade_joseph@lycos.com
adejoseph@fastermail.com



