docno="lists-077-6962737"
received="Fri Aug 10 11:01:55 2001"
isoreceived="20010810150155"
sent="Fri, 10 Aug 2001 11:01:28 -0400"
isosent="20010810150128"
name="David Poehlman"
email="poehlman1@home.com"
subject="forwarded:INFO: Announcing the Annotated JavaScript Project"
id="007d01c121ad$557563e0$2cf60141@mtgmry1.md.home.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:"wai-ig list"<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>

forwarded message:

Date:    Thu, 9 Aug 2001 21:17:59 -0500
From:    David Merchant <
merchant@LATECH.EDU>

Subject: INFO: Announcing the Annotated JavaScript Project

The Annotated JavaScript Project list has been formed. It's via Yahoo!
Groups. The purpose of the Project is to fully annotate javascripts,
most scripts
are lightly or vaguely annotated, if at all.  Some of us feel that fully
annotated (line by line, except for repetitive items like arrays, don't
need to
repeat "this is for the second image to preload" for example) would be
useful and helpful to some folk.  That it would learning aid for some,
speed customization
of the script for others, and so forth.  For those that don't care, well
there's plenty of non-annotated scripts already existing on the Net and
they can
ignore the AJSP :-)!

Those who have intermediate to expert skills in JavaScripting, please
strongly consider joining and becoming charter members! We believe this
is a very
worthwhile and needed project, and you don't need to participate on
every line of every script, most of us have day jobs after all!

At first we will fully annotate only scripts that are the most
practical, useful, or most requested by folk. Maybe in the dim future,
if anyone wants to
annotated something more exotic, I say go for it, but for now I would
like us to concentrate on the everyday practical kinds of scripts.

Members will either announce to the list what script they'll be
annotating, to prevent duplication, or will send me, the list owner /
moderator, scripts
they'd like to see annotated and I'll put them up on a section of the
AJSP for members to pick and choose. For the latter, please let me know
which one
you choose so I can mark it as "choosen" so no one else will pick it
(first come, first served).

Once you've annotated the script, send it to me, and I'll put it up on a
section of the AJSP website for scripts that are annotated but are on
hold for
discussion before placing on the public section. It is then announced to
the list that "a new script has been annotated and would you please
check it out
and make any comments on the list about it". If there's no discussion
after several days, it's moved to the public section. Otherwise, after
some discussion
and maybe some tweaking by the original annotater, the script is then
moved to the public section.

Also, while annotating your script please feel free to ask any questions
or for help on the list in annotating a line or section of your script.
Some AJSP
members don't have time to work on whole scripts but are very willing to
help out with a line or section.

Annotation: give the entire script, then take the script apart line by
line. Keep the theory discussions/explanations light (not eliminated!
just light!
Use your best judgement.)

If you want to join, send an email to

annotated-subscribe@yahoogroups.com

Here are the list settings:
?Listed in directory
?Restricted membership (list owner/moderator will approve membership
requests)
?Unmoderated
?All members may post
? Archives for members only
? Moderator only can create polls, but all members can vote

It's not fully up yet, but the results of the AJSP will be placed at the
Annotated JavaScript Page website (
http://www.mountaindragon.com/AJSP/)

A special url for members, mainly for them to see and vote on any
proposed final annotated JavaScript, will be posted on the AJSP list.

TTFN,
David Merchant

Head, Systems Dept, Louisiana Tech University
merchant@latech.edu
JavaScript List Administrator (
www.mountaindragon.com/javascript/)

Webmaster, HTML Encyclopedia (
www.mountaindragon.com/html/)

Webmaster, Memorial Day Page: (
www.usmemorialday.org/)



