docno="lists-100-2641564"
received="Mon Jan 18 02:29:59 1999"
isoreceived="19990118072959"
sent="Sun, 17 Jan 1999 15:32:17 -0800"
isosent="19990117233217"
name="bande@iname.com"
email="bande@iname.com"
subject="Build Your Fortune Over The Internet                     *1"
id="57205347215556638@[10.135.235.1]"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"



BUILD YOUR FORTUNE OVER THE INTERNET
EARN INCOME 24 HRS. A DAY, 7 DAYS A WEEK

The Internet, if used properly, represents the single greatest
opportunity in our lifetimes to become financially independent.

Successful business owners in our program receive awesome bonuses.
As your business starts to grow, you qualify for and choose your
COMPANY PAID CAR and COMPANY PAID HOUSE.

You now have the opportunity to reap the awesome rewards from the
combined efforts and experience of the most knowledgeable business
and Internet professionals ever put together to insure your success.

You are getting involved right at the start of this fantastic growth
stage.

Our program is in the only industry that allows you to create
wealth without any large investment.  Our turnkey solution was created
to fulfill a need for people like you who have a burning desire to own
their own business and improve their quality of life, but do not have
the business experience or the capital to get started.

You get a virtual store, FOR FREE, that can do business anywhere the
world, and like a franchise, every element has been created to make
you very wealthy.  Your Internet store is stocked with over 350 high
quality products and services.  Many are proprietary.

There is NO selling or  face to face rejection.

Think about it - You could expose your business to more people in a
month than could be accomplished in a lifetime in the traditional way.
You would potentially never take a face to face rejection, and you would
only be dealing with people who are interested. All in the comfort of
your own home.

The products are shipped to the customer directly from the company with
no interaction on your part! You get all the benefits of being a business
owner without all the hassles. You earn outstanding income 24 hrs. a day,
7 days a week with little effort. All the accounting is done for you, at
the end of the month YOU get A CHECK! No other business is this easy.

You receive every tool necessary to teach and train you to bring people
to your store. This is an online business owner's dream! You have access
to a proven system that drives people who are interested in your business
and products right to your store---automatically!

It's almost impossible to fail. If you follow our system and use the tools
and methods provided for you ---- you will be successful. You can do this.

You Can Be Financially FREE!

Think of it, PEOPLE ARE LIVING FREE IN THE HOUSE OF THEIR DREAMS and
DRIVING FREE CARS.

YOU CAN TOO!

This is NOT a GET RICH QUICK SCHEME. This is a legitimate business. We have
over a 90% retention rate. The highest in any industry! We are a 14 year old,
publicly traded company on NASDAQ which means full disclosure of  company
finances. This is YOUR business, with all the tax advantages of owning your
own business.

If you put in 5 hrs. per week for 2-3 years worth of effort, you can make
your dreams come true. You are at the right place at the right time. The
Internet is the market place of the future. The future is here, now.

Succeed together with us.

The decision is yours, but the time is going to pass anyway.
Be where you want to be.

ACT NOW!  Send your request for further information to:
mailto:dreambiz99-1@juno.com

Please include your Name, Address, Phone Number and Best time to contact.



For removal, mailto:subsheet@juno.com



