docno="lists-012-0973671"
received="Mon Mar 16 05:22:26 1998"
isoreceived="19980316102226"
sent="Mon, 16 Mar 1998 08:21:14 0500"
isosent="19980316132114"
name="InternetDrafts@ns.ietf.org"
email="InternetDrafts@ns.ietf.org"
subject="I-D ACTION:draft-ietf-http-authentication01.txt"
id="199803161321.IAA12522@ns.ietf.org"
expires="1"


To: IETF-Announce: ;,@cnri.reston.va.us:
Cc:http-wg@cuckoo.hpl.hp.com

A New Internet-Draft is available from the on-line Internet-Drafts directories.
This draft is a work item of the HyperText Transfer Protocol Working Group of the IETF.

Title: HTTP Authentication: Basic and Digest 
                          Access Authentication
Author(s): J. Franks, E. Sink, P. Leach, J. Hostetler, 
                          P. Hallam-Baker, L. Stewart, S. Lawrence, A. Luotonen
Filename: draft-ietf-http-authentication-01.txt
Pages: 26
Date: 13-Mar-98

''HTTP/1.0'' includes the specification for a Basic Access Authentication
scheme. This scheme is not considered to be a secure method of user
authentication (unless used in conjunction with some external secure
system such as SSL [5]), as the user name and password are passed over
the network as cleartext.
 
This document also provides the specification for HTTP's authentication
framework, the original Basic authentication scheme and a scheme based
on cryptographic hashes, referred to as ''Digest Access Authentication''.
It is therefore also intended to serve as a replacement for RFC 2069
[6].  Some optional elements specified by RFC 2069 have been removed
from this specification due to problems found since its publication;
other new elements have been added -for compatibility, those new
elements have been made optional, but are strongly recommended.
 
Like Basic, Digest access authentication verifies that both parties to a
communication know a shared secret (a password); unlike Basic, this
verification can be done without sending the password in the clear,
which is Basic's biggest weakness. As with most other authentication
protocols, the greatest sources of risks are usually found not in the
core protocol itself but in policies and procedures surrounding its use.

Internet-Drafts are available by anonymous FTP.  Login with the username
"anonymous" and a password of your e-mail address.  After logging in,
type "cd internet-drafts" and then
"get draft-ietf-http-authentication-01.txt".
A URL for the Internet-Draft is:
ftp://ftp.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-http-authentication-01.txt

Internet-Drafts directories are located at:

Africa:ftp.is.co.za

Europe: ftp.nordu.net
ftp.nis.garr.it

Pacific Rim: munnari.oz.au

US East Coast: ds.internic.net

US West Coast: ftp.isi.edu

Internet-Drafts are also available by mail.

Send a message to:mailserv@ietf.org.  In the body type:
"FILE /internet-drafts/draft-ietf-http-authentication-01.txt".

NOTE:The mail server at ietf.org can return the document in
MIME-encoded form by using the "mpack" utility.  To use this
feature, insert the command "ENCODING mime" before the "FILE"
command.  To decode the response(s), you will need "munpack" or
a MIME-compliant mail reader.  Different MIME-compliant mail readers
exhibit different behavior, especially when dealing with
"multipart" MIME messages (i.e. documents which have been split
up into multiple messages), so check your local documentation on
how to manipulate these messages.


Below is the data which will enable a MIME compliant mail reader
implementation to automatically retrieve the ASCII version of the
Internet-Draft.







Message/External-body attachment: stored




