docno="lists-046-13649709"
received="Tue Aug 18 10:10:07 1998"
isoreceived="19980818141007"
sent="Tue, 18 Aug 1998 10:10:24 -0400"
isosent="19980818141024"
name="Ian B. Jacobs"
email="ij@w3.org"
subject="TESTIMONIALS: W3C Issues First Public Working Draft of XSL 1.0"
id="35D98B50.26D4AAA9@w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-news@w3.org

W3C Publishes First Public Working Draft of XSL 1.0

  Contact America --  Ian Jacobs <ij@w3.org>
                      +1.212.684.1814
                      Sally Khudairi <khudairi@w3.org>
                      +1.617.253.8036

  Contact Europe --   Ned Mitchell <ned@ala.com>
                      +33 1 43 22 79 56
                      Andrew Lloyd <allo@ala.com>
                      +44 127 367 5100

  Contact Asia --     Yumiko Matsubara <matsubara@w3.org>
                      +81.466.49.1170

------------------------------------------------------------------------

     "Adobe, as a producer of content authoring tools, has taken a
     leadership role in the development of XSL. We recognize this draft
     as a significant step in supporting XML as a key Web technology.
     By clearly separating the content of a document from its
     presentation, XML provides for content reuse. The role of XSL is
     to provide the presentation information. XSL complements CSS in
     that role and is significant because it provides more flexibility.
     We support the W3C's efforts to facilitate interchange on the Web
     and applaud this step toward increased flexibility and accuracy of
     Web content creation and reuse."
     -- Tom Malloy, VP for Advanced Technology, Adobe Systems
     Incorporated

     "XSL holds the promise of providing the world with its first
     media-independent style sheet specification. This W3C
     specification will allow you to efficiently publish both
     interactive Web pages and professionally designed printed
     documents from the same XML content."
     -- Paul Trevithick, Chief Technology Officer, Bitstream Inc.

     "As one of the earliest backers of XML, Enigma is excited by the
     initial draft of the XSL standard. XML promises to bring
     structured authoring and web publishing to the mainstream,
     allowing for massive data reuse. XSL is critical because it
     enables a reliable, highly formatted output to be published in
     multiple environments. In addition to native support of XML data,
     Enigma's style sheet editor facilitates the intuitive creation of
     XSL style sheets."
     -- Mickey Kimchi, Vice President of Research and Development,
     Enigma, Inc.

     "XSL, by making it possible to transform and display XML
     everywhere, is a key step in the evolution of XML as an e-business
     tool. IBM is pleased to be contributing to the progress of XSL,
     and looks forward to continuing to work with W3C on this and other
     initiatives."
     -- David Singer, Senior Technical Staff Member and AC
     Representative for IBM

     "Inso is excited and very pleased with the progress of the XSL
     Working Group. The first draft shows significant progress and
     validates Inso's plans to develop an enhanced stylesheet editor
     that combines XSL and CSS to produce high quality web, CD, and
     print output from a single XML source. XSL sits at the crossroads
     of electronic publishing, e-commerce, and client server computing;
     as such, XSL's requirements are both complex and important; again,
     Inso commends the W3C and the XSL Working Group for their hard
     work and commitment. "
     -- Sebastian Holst, Vice President, Product Management, Inso
     Corporation

     "XSL will be instrumental in providing a compatible migration path
     from today's HTML-based web to the XML Internet of the future. XSL
     will also provide powerful formatting services for XML documents
     and data. Lotus is pleased to support the release of the first XSL
     draft specification."
     -- Alex Morrow, Lotus Fellow and Vice President of Advanced
     Technologies, Lotus Development Corporation

     "Microsoft is excited about the publication of the XSL Working
     Draft. XSL is an important technology for enabling broad use of
     XML on the web. It provides a declarative mechanism for
     manipulating and presenting XML data within a web page or by a
     browser. XSL's goal of simplifying the delivery of XML content to
     the end user will give web publishers even richer XML-based
     solutions in the future. We are proud to have been an active
     member of the XSL working group and are pleased by the high level
     of interest generated by the Microsoft XSL Technology Preview
     Release. We expect XSL to meet with broad acceptance in the
     future."
     -- Mark Ryland, Director of Standards Activities, Microsoft

     "As a leading supporter of XML, Netscape is pleased by the release
     of the first XSL public working draft. Together with other W3C
     standards like HTML, CSS, DOM, and XML, XSL will provide
     developers greater power and control for documents and data on the
     Internet."
     -- Jim Hamerly, VP, Netscape Communications Corporation

     "Increasingly, the World Wide Web is becoming the backbone for
     business-to-business communications. But the complexity of
     business information has outstripped the formatting mechanisms
     that were built into HTML. As a result, RivCom and others have had
     to invent proprietary mechanisms for delivering sophisticated
     XML-based documents to the desktop. The XSL standard will
     eliminate these obstacles and bring industrial strength publishing
     to the Web. At RivCom we will migrate our XML-based publishing
     projects to XSL as soon as feasible, in order to bring our clients
     the benefits of this stable, robust, standardized mechanism for
     publishing XML."
     -- Bernard Rivers, Managing Director, RivCom

     "This is a great day for electronic publishing. With XSL, we can
     finally achieve the dream of truly open, interoperable,
     international publishing across all media and all platforms. XSL
     not only makes the development and management of a Web site more
     flexible and efficient, it increases the speed of information
     delivery."
     -- Jon Bosak, Online Information Technology Architect and Chair of
     the W3C XML Working Group, Sun Microsystems



