docno="lists-023-11118906"
received="Wed Oct  8 16:07:56 2003"
isoreceived="20031008200756"
sent="Wed, 8 Oct 2003 13:06:41 -0700"
isosent="20031008200641"
name="Mike Leach (Cubic Compass)"
email="mike@cubiccompass.com"
subject="Critics say Microsoft IE changes premature"
id="WM01BB8814267D48d981EF89FC4FCC7E01@cubiccompass.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:<public-web-plugins@w3.org>


http://www.infoworld.com/article/03/10/08/HNiechanges_1.html

Critics say Microsoft IE changes premature
Company may be forcing developers to rewrite aspects of the Web


By Robert McMillan, IDG News Service

October 08, 2003  

Microsoft Corp. may be unnecessarily forcing developers to rewrite large
portions of the Web, say members of the Web development community who fear
that the software giant's plans to bring its Internet Explorer browser in
compliance with a recent software patent ruling against the company are
premature.

The changes, announced on Monday, were created in response to a $521 million
software patent verdict against Microsoft, won by Eolas Technologies Inc. in
the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois this August. 

A new version of Internet Explorer, expected to be released early next year,
will handle dynamic content like RealOne, Macromedia Flash or Apple
QuickTime files in a new way designed to "ameliorate or eliminate the impact
of the ruling," according to a Microsoft statement. 

Microsoft also issued instructions to Web developers on Monday, advising
them to make changes to Web pages that contain this kind of dynamic content
or risk presenting their users with dialogue boxes. "If Web developers have
not updated their Web pages using the techniques suggested by Microsoft and
others, users may see a simple dialog box before the browser loads the
ActiveX control," the statement said. 

"They will have to make changes to those few Web pages that have ActiveX
controls or Java applets on them to avoid dialog boxes on those pages,"
explained Michael Wallent, the general manager of Microsoft's Windows client
platform group. 

Wallent believes that the majority of pages in question are now being used
to deliver advertising, and that the advertising community will be quick to
make the necessary changes. 

He downplayed the potential effects of the changes, predicting that the
"vast majority" of affected Web sites would be switched over before the new
version of Internet Explorer became available. "If you exclude Web
advertising, you're not looking at a huge number of sites," he added. 

But others argued that asking the Web community to re-tag every example of
dynamic content on the Internet before the Eolas verdict had even been
appealed was unreasonable. 

"I think they should at least be waiting until the courts rule," said Rich
Green, the vice president of developer platforms at Sun Microsystems Inc.
"It seems premature to be rolling out change in a case where the final
answer has not been reached." 

Making the changes would not be a huge technical challenge for the Atomic
Mail LLC, a Columbus, Ohio company that offers a Web-based e-mail
application that uses flash animation, said Art Krumsee, the company's chief
technical officer. But that is because the Atomic Mail application has only
one HTML page that loads Flash, he explained. 

However, the work required to review and modify any site with extensive
flash animation would be a "notable expense" for some companies, he said. 

"It's only a minor change, but if there are hundreds of millions of pages
out there that have to be re-authored, that's a lot of work," said a source
familiar with the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Microsoft's
decision to ask Web developers to make widespread changes rather than simply
paying a fee to Eolas for use of its software patents was simply a way of
off-loading the cost of the Eolas suit on to Web developers, the source
suggested. 

Continuing to use the techniques covered in the Eolas patent is not an
option for Microsoft, said Wallent. "It wouldn't be prudent for us to just
sit back and wait for the legal process to play out while the bills keep
accruing." If Microsoft continues to ship Internet Explorer without these
changes, not only will it be liable for somewhere between $150 million and
$200 million in court-ordered restitution to Eolas per year, it could also
be found guilty of "willful infringement" of the Eolas patent, and that
could put Microsoft in contempt of court, Wallent said. 

Microsoft may be moving too quickly with its Internet Explorer fix, said
Dale Dougherty, a publisher with O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., who has worked
with Microsoft and members of the Web community on the Eolas issue, but the
company has a valid business case for its actions. "Obviously they have
money on the line and the rest of us don't," he said. "I think it's a fair
comment that... Microsoft is rushing to a solution here, but I understand
why they might rush." 

 

 

 

 

---------------------------------------------------

Mike Leach

Cubic Compass Software

Enterprise Portal Solutions

 

mike@cubiccompass.com

http://www.cubiccompass.com <mailto:mike@cubiccompass.com> 

503.520.0845 Office

503.358.6547 Mobile

 



