docno="lists-032-2642113"
received="Sun Jun  2 02:43:54 2002"
isoreceived="20020602064354"
sent="Sat, 1 Jun 2002 07:52:33 +0100"
isosent="20020601065233"
name="Dr Bello Ahmed"
email="drbello_ahmed@fishingworks.com"
subject="reply fast"
id="200206020643.CAA09135@tux.w3.org"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:<svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org>


CONFIDENTIAL INVESTMENT PROPOSAL 
 
Attn:  
 
Permit me to acquaint you with this proposal for the purpose of investment in your country. I know this letter may come to as a 
surprise since we have not met before. Your contact was given to me by a staff of the Sierra Leone Chambers of commerce and Industry, Free Town, who informed me that your name and contact was sourced through an Internet search done by the chambers. 
 
My name is Bello Ahmed, son of late Mr. Dangogo Ahmed. My father until his death was the Director of Gold / Diamond Mining field of Kono District in Sierra Lone. 
 
Before his death in a private hospital in Free Town, he disclosed to me the reason he was poisoned by his business associates. He revealed to me of a consignment containing US$25,500.00 (Twenty Five Million Five Hundred Thousand United State Dollars) he deposited in a private security company  for safety purpose since there was war in our country. He explained further that he declared the consignment as a family treasure and artifact to the security company to avoid them raising eyebrows, hence they do not know the content of the consignment. 
 
He also directed me where he kept the deposit certificate and agreement reached with the security company. He advised that I should leave  for Abidjan in the event of his death immediately to facilitate the claiming and transfer of this money to any country of my choice for proper investment and also to avoid being killed by the people that killed him.   
 
Presently, I am in Abidjan, cote d?ivoire with my mother after the burial and three months mourning as our village local tradition demands. I am looking for a honest and trustworthy person who will assist me in this business as my late father instructed. Besides, I strongly want to continue my education in your country and you would definitely stand as my guardian and overseer of any investment made with this money. 
 
You will also plan to accommodate me and my mother in your country, since my father?s death, my mother had been sick due to 
circumstances surrounding my father?s death. It is in proper to live her behind since no body will be taking care of her. 
 
As soon as the consignment is out from the security company and the transfer made, you will be compensated with 30% of the total sum, while the remaining will be for investment. If you are willing to assist me in this transaction, kindly contact me on 
my telephone number as stated above, state your phone and fax numbers in your next mail, I will then furnish you with the details, including faxing of the certificate of deposit agreement to you for your perusal and confirmation. 
 
Thanks and God bless you. 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
Mr.Bello Ahmed 
drbello_ahmed@fishingworks.com 



