docno="lists-043-7196988"
received="Fri Oct 25 12:24:50 2002"
isoreceived="20021025162450"
sent="Fri, 25 Oct 2002 10:47:39 -0500"
isosent="20021025154739"
name="Chris McNew"
email="chrism@firecommerce.com"
subject="Your website..."
id="005101c27c3d$e4072d00$0200a8c0@firecomm.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:"Mortgage Professional"<chrism@firecommerce.com>

Hello,
 
After visiting your website this morning, I thought you might like to know about a new way you can receive secure Online loan applications - directly from your website.  If not, please excuse my mailing as I will not contact you again.  This product has become an invaluable tool for many of our customers, ranging from mortgage companies to auto-dealers... simply put: it's an quick, easy, and secure way for anyone who would like to get loan applications from truly qualified leads sent directly to your email. 
 
I'm sure you can imagine the potential of being able to accept loan applications over the Internet.  When we were testing this product, our clients told us that they make from $2,500 or more, per loan they close. I don't know how much you make, but at that rate, if our product got you only 1 loan in a year, it would STILL pay for itself. 
 
Reach your market!  
We know that the only way we can stay in business is if people use our product. To that end, we'll send you 250 free business cards that direct potential clients to your website. We also provide deluxe search engine submission upon sign up. Our clients even have access to a special part of our website where you can submit your website to the most important search engines as often as you'd like, for free.   
 
Increase Profit Margins!
You probably get all kinds of emails from people trying to sell you "qualified" leads for $300 or more per month. Our online loan application is designed to make your website generate qualified leads that aren't just motivated to buy... they're motivated to buy FROM YOU!  You'll also be able to take part in our aggressive affiliate program that pays you cash for every customer you refer to us. Our current payout is $30/ loan application customer and $50/ complete website customer!
 
Save money!
Our clients say that almost 60% of every loan application they process originates from the web.  If you decide to proceed by November 1st, you will qualify for our introductory pricing of $99 per month. Call or click the link below before November 1st and you'll even save 50% on account setup and customization, were we customize your application with your company logo and contact info!
 
Don't have a website?
No problem, we have fully pre-designed mortgage websites and we'll even register your domain name for FREE!
 
Already have a website?
If you'd like to transfer you website to Firecomm, we'll wave the transfer fee!  If not, you can still take advantage of our reliable loan application by simply placing a link to your loan application on your current website!
 
View a sample!
To view a sample, just go to http://www.firecomm.com/demo/mortgage. Feel free to enter bogus information to see how it works (except your email address if you'd like to see what your clients will receive when they finish the application).  
 
Contact us today!
If you'd like to discuss this further, or would like more details, feel free to reply to this email, as I'm happy to answer any questions you may have.  Also, I apologize if this email has reached you in error, and I won't be mailing you again unless you should request more information.   You can remove yourself from any future mailings by going here: http://www.firecomm.com/mailinglist and typing in your email address.
 
Thanks again for your time,
 
Chris
 
Firecomm Systems
www.firecomm.com
1-866-934-HOST
 
 



