docno="lists-052-0175775"
received="Wed Apr  9 02:34:33 2003"
isoreceived="20030409063433"
sent="Wed, 9 Apr 2003 08:34:38 +0300"
isosent="20030409053438"
name="Jeremy Carroll"
email="jjc@hpl.hp.com"
subject="Re: williams-01, proposal to close (revised)"
id="200304090834.38447.jjc@hpl.hp.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="williams-01, proposal to close (revised)"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org




Summary: :(  not enough changes of statement for triple etc.

Concerning 3.1 Graph Data Model
I use OLD for the Last Call text, NEW for gk's text, and JJC: for my prefered 
text.
3.2 in next message.

OLD: 3.1 Graph Data Model
NEW: 3.1 Graph data model

I prefer OLD for consistency with other W3C publciations (U.S. usage?)

OLD: The underlying structure of any expression in RDF 
OLD: can be viewed as a  directed labelled graph, which consists of 
OLD: nodes and labelled directed arcs that link pairs of nodes 
OLD: (these notions are defined more formally in section 6). The RDF 
OLD: graph is a set of triples:

NEW: The underlying structure of any expression in RDF
NEW: is a collection of triples, each consisting of a subject, a 
NEW: property and an object. A set of such triples is called an 
NEW: RDF graph (defined more formally in section 6). 
NEW: The structure can be illustrated by a directed node-arc diagram
NEW: in which each triple is represented as a node-arc-node link 
NEW: (hence the term "graph").
I prefer NEW except for "directed" which should modify arc not node.
Suggest:
JJC: The structure can be illustrated by a  diagram with directed, 
JJC: labelled arcs linking nodes.

UNCHANGED: 
[[
Each property arc represents a statement of a relationship between the things 
denoted by the nodes that it links, having three parts:

a property that describes some relationship (also called a predicate),
a value that is the subject of the statement, and
a value that is the object of the statement.
]]

maybe that should have been changed.
My understanding is that the resolution of the issue uses the terminology
triple/node/URIref etc for the graph
and
statement/resource etc for the domain of discourse.

Suggest:

JJC: Each triple represents a statement of a relationship between the 
JJC: things denoted by the nodes that it links. Each triple has three parts:

JJC: a subject node representing the resource that is the subject of the 
statement, 
JJC: a property URI reference that represents the relationship of the 
statement (also called a predicate),
JJC: an object node that is the object of the statement.

UNHCANGED:
[[
The direction of the arc is significant: it always points toward the object of 
a statement.
]]
again the statement word is misplaced.

JJC (suggest):
[[
The direction of the arc is significant: it always points toward the object of 
the triple.
]]


OLD: -
NEW: The nodes of an RDF graph are its subjects and objects.
suggest "subject nodes and object nodes"


OLD: The meaning of an RDF graph is the conjunction (i.e. logical AND) 
OLD: of all the statements that it contains.

NEW: The assertion of an RDF triple says that some relationship, 
NEW: indicated by the property, holds between the subject and 
NEW: object of the triple. The assertion of an RDF graph amounts 
NEW: to asserting all the triples in it, so the meaning of an RDF 
NEW: graph is the conjunction (logical AND) of all the 
NEW: statements it contains. A formal account of the meaning of RDF 
NEW: graphs is given in [RDF-SEMANTICS].

Neither seem to obey the rules on triple vs statement.
Also, I think it is better to avoid the assertion word where possible 
(justification: social meaning resolution) (i.e. I believe there is avoidable 
risk associated with adding new occurrences of the A-word).

Suggest:

JJC:
[[
The meaning of an RDF triple is the statement it represents.
 The meaning of an RDF graph is the conjunction (logical AND) of 
the meaning of all the triples it contains. 
A formal account of the meaning of RDF graphs is 
given in [RDF-SEMANTICS].
]]


Overall for section 3.1 my prefered text is as follows:

[[
 3.1 Graph Data Model

The underlying structure of any expression in RDF
is a collection of triples, each consisting of a subject, a 
property and an object. A set of such triples is called an 
RDF graph (defined more formally in section 6). 
The structure can be illustrated by a  diagram with directed, 
labelled arcs linking nodes.
in which each triple is represented as a node-arc-node link 
(hence the term "graph").

*picture*

Each triple represents a statement of a relationship between the things 
denoted by the nodes that it links. Each triple has three parts:

+ a subject node representing the resource that is the subject of the 
statement, 
+ a property URI reference that represents the relationship of the statement 
(also called a predicate),
+ an object node that is the object of the statement.

The direction of the arc is significant: it always points toward the object of 
the triple.

The nodes of an RDF graph are its subject nodes and object nodes.

The meaning of an RDF triple is the statement it represents.
 The meaning of an RDF graph is the conjunction (logical AND) of 
the meaning of all the triples it contains. 
A formal account of the meaning of RDF graphs is 
given in [RDF-SEMANTICS].
]]



