docno="lists-080-2154367"
received="Wed Sep 10 08:50:53 2003"
isoreceived="20030910125053"
sent="Wed, 10 Sep 2003 08:48:17 -0400"
isosent="20030910124817"
name="Dana Louise Simberkoff"
email="danalouise@hisoftware.com"
subject="[MEDIA] Accessibility Validation and Repair Tools for Flash Announced"
id="NCBBKABIKLNEMPJIJOBJAEDIENAB.danalouise@hisoftware.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>



Hello All-

HiSoftware, Inc. today announced the release of Hi-Caption SE and AccRepair
for Macromedia Flash MX 2004. These solutions provide developers worldwide
with the first comprehensive tools for managing captioning and the
accessibility of their Flash projects. These groundbreaking new solutions
are available today from Macromedia and HiSoftware. For more information on
these solutions visit <http://www.hisoftware.com/macromedia/index.html>
Please find full press release below and at:
http://www.hisoftware.com/press/macromedia.html

Best Regards,
Dana Louise Simberkoff
www.hisoftware.com
danalouise@hisoftware.com


Concord, NH  September 10, 2003 - HiSoftware, Inc. today announced the
release of Hi-Caption SE and AccRepair for Macromedia Flash MX 2004. These
solutions provide developers worldwide with the first comprehensive tools
for managing captioning and the accessibility of their Flash projects, in
complete conformance with standards mandated by Section 508 of the federal
government's Rehabilitation Act, international accessibility guidelines set
forth by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), and other applicable
accessibility guidelines. These groundbreaking new solutions, available
today from Macromedia and HiSoftware, are inspired by HiSoftwares industry
leading high-performance Accessibility and Content Quality Solutions.
Hi-Caption SE and AccRepair use the new extensibility support in Macromedia
Flash MX 2004 to provide testing, remediation, and closed captioning
directly within the Flash authoring tool, marrying rich multimedia
development and accessibility for the first time.
AccRepair for Flash MX 2004 makes it significantly easier for users to
create rich multimedia Web experiences that are also accessible, allowing
them to be used fully by the widest audience. AccRepair for Flash MX 2004
allows for fast and efficient testing and remediation of the accessibility
of Flash content and applications. AccRepair steps users through several
tests that allow them to validate that their content is accessible,
providing a facility for developers to correct accessibility issues in an
interactive manner. Through an interactive interface, developers can create
content that conforms to recommended accessibility guidelines.
Accessible multimedia requires synchronized captioning for media files.
Hi-Caption SE for Flash MX 2004 allows for fast and efficient caption
creation, editing, and testing. The Hi-Caption SE XML file allows for the
embedding of multiple languages, which can then be selected dynamically by
the user who is viewing the captions. The Hi-Caption Viewer component for
use with Macromedia Flash provides drag-and-drop integration with the Flash
authoring environment. Developers can simply *drop on* the Hi-Caption Viewer
component, set the properties, and then can provide closed captioned media
to their site visitors. No scripting knowledge is required. This is useful
for training, accessibility, multi-language delivery of content and more.
*Macromedia is committed to lowering the technical barriers to enable
developers to create rich, engaging, and accessible experiences on the web,*
said Bob Regan, accessibility product manager, Macromedia. *HiSoftwares
integrated solutions empower Flash developers to create rich, accessible
content from within the familiar Flash authoring environment through a
simple-to-use, comprehensive interface.*
*HiSoftware solutions Hi-Caption SE and AccRepair allow developers to create
Flash content and applications that will be fully available to end-users
regardless of technical or physical abilities,* according to
http://www.hisoftware.com/co/yonaitis.htm CEO and President of HiSoftware
Company. *Increasingly, developers are understanding the importance of
accessible content design and delivery. HiSoftwares new solutions for Flash
make it possible for all users to achieve their goals for developing
accessible Flash content and applications*.

HiSoftwares verification, repair and monitoring software solutions assist
organizations in achieving and maintaining Web sites in compliance with
organizational standards for accessibility, privacy, searchability,
usability and custom quality factors. These solutions, available as client
and automated server-based applications, help organizations develop
long-term strategies to achieve Web content accessibility and quality. They
allow multiple users to work collaboratively on Web site content
testing-resulting in reductions in time and resources. HiSoftwares
solutions help organizations develop long-term strategies to achieve Web
content accessibility, enhance usability, and comply with U.S. and
international accessibility standards.
Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments mandates that federal
agencies ensure that all electronic and information technologies purchased,
maintained or developed meet the accessibility standards established by the
U.S. Access Board. Although federally mandated, state governments and
private organizations can also benefit by adhering to these standards, which
enable access and usability by the widest possible audience.
PRICING AND AVAILABILITY
Hi-Caption SE and AccRepair are available today from Macromedia and
HiSoftware Company. They are priced at $99 each. The tools work with
Macromedia Flash MX 2004. For more information on these solutions and
ordering, visit <http://www.hisoftware.com/macromedia/index.html>.


ABOUT HISOFTWARE
HiSoftware Company, the leader in enterprise content quality management
solutions, provides innovative products that empower quality assurance
teams, content developers, Web site architects, and company executives to
work collaboratively on their efforts to create and manage corporate Web
standards for Accessibility, Privacy, Searchability, Usability and custom
guidelines and policies. HiSoftwares integrated, full lifecycle solutions
dramatically reduce the time required to test, manage and deploy e-business
Web sites.

HiSoftware works closely with industry leaders and visionaries to provide
solutions for today's information accessibility, content quality, search and
retrieval needs. HiSoftwares customers represent Fortune 500 companies, and
many of the largest e-commerce, government, and educational sites in North
America and around the world and include ChevronTexaco, Commerce One,
Mercury Interactive, and Microsoft Government.

Founded in 1998, HiSoftware Company maintains North American corporate
headquarters in Concord, New Hampshire. Further information about HiSoftware
can be found online at www.hisoftware.com <http://www.hisoftware.com>



