docno="lists-025-11566445"
received="Wed Jun  4 19:28:22 2003"
isoreceived="20030604232822"
sent="Wed, 4 Jun 2003 16:28:18 -0700"
isosent="20030604232818"
name="Yaron Y. Goland"
email="ygoland@bea.com"
subject="Requirements: Decision Points Requirement Proposals"
id="GMEOJGJFKALPDCNPFMDOKENODCAA.ygoland@bea.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:"WS Chor Public"<public-ws-chor@w3.org>



I propose the following requirements be added to the requirements document:

The WS-Chor choreography description format MUST provide mechanisms to
enable a choreography to specify that a process in a particular role MUST
send zero, one or more messages from a statically defined set of messages in
parallel, serial or any combination of the two.

The WS-Chor choreography description format MUST be able to describe
decision points where a process in a particular role MAY send zero, one or
more messages from a statically defined set of messages in parallel, serial
or any combination of the two.

The WS-Chor choreography description format MUST be able to describe who is
to receive a message by referencing their role.

The WS-Chor choreography description format MUST make it possible to specify
a role's binding to an actual web service instance either statically, when a
web service using that choreography is deployed, or dynamically at run time.

The WS-Chor choreography description format MUST provide mechanisms to allow
messages to be sent to a particular member of a set of web services in the
same role.
[Ed Note: What I'm very inelegantly trying to capture is the idea that if
you are running an auction service and you just found out that one of the
bidders isn't qualified to bid you need a way to say things like "I'm now
going to send out an unsolicited 'get lost you dead beat' message to one web
service that is in the role of bidder." This could then trigger a whole set
of messages back and forth between the auction service and the dead beat
bidder, the choreography needs some way to capture the fact that you are
still talking to the same member of the role group.]

The WS-Chor choreography description format MUST NOT require that the logic
used by a sender in a decision point to decide how to act be exposed in the
choreography.

The WS-Chor choreography description format MUST enable the annotation of
all actions with human readable descriptions.

The WS-Chor choreography description format MUST provide an abstract
mechanism where by the logic used to make a decision at a decision point can
be expressed through reference to a WSBPEL abstract or executable process or
similar machine readable logic.

The WS-Chor choreography description format base specification MUST NOT
specify bindings for the abstract mechanism used to reference machine
readable logic, rather extension specifications on top of the base
specification MUST be used.

I would appreciate it if objections to these requirements were stated in the
form of alternate proposals. It's easy to say why something is wrong, it's a
lot harder to spend the time to specify what is right.

Yaron



