docno="lists-008-4119818"
received="Tue Dec 17 17:42:44 2002"
isoreceived="20021217224244"
sent="Tue, 17 Dec 2002 19:45:29 +0100"
isosent="20021217184529"
name="ROBERTSON  SAVIMBI"
email="robertson_savimbi101@epatra.com"
subject="INVESTMENT  PROPOSAL"
id="200212172242.gBHMgZA19139@frink.w3.org"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"


To:ietf-discuss@w3.org


Dear friend,

 

My proposal to you will be very surprising, as we have not had any 
personal contact. However, I sincerely seek your confidence in this 
transaction, which I propose to you as a person of transparency,honesty 
and caliber.
 
Let me first start by introducing myself properly to you. My name 
is Robertson Savimbi cousin and Personal Assistant of Jonas Malheiro 
Savimbi, the leader UNITA (National Union for the Total independence 
of Angola). I got your email address from network directory. I 
apologize if I have infringed  on your privacy.

You may know that my Uncle was  killed in a battle with 
the government troops of Angola, led by President Dos Santos, on friday 
22nd February, 2002. 
 
Now Mr. Antonio Dembo and general Paulo Lukamba who were my Uncle's 
second in command, has assumed office as leader of UNITA. In spite of 
this, UNITA is like a herd of cattle without shepherd. Prominent members 
like Carlos Morgado are still lobbying to oust them and assume office as 
leader to enrich themselves and some of them who see me as a threat to 
their ambitions, including General paula lukamba, are planning to kill 
me. For more information check www.angola.org. 

However, I am a young man who has ambitions and I am not in any 
way interested in wars, this is why I secretly left Angola and come 
here to England to seek political asylum.

 I am sincerely seeking for your urgent help in respect to safe keeping 
of some of my Uncle's money that arose from Diamonds sales. This money 
(US$18.5million), was already on its way to my Uncle's Swiss Bank 
account. It was on transit with a safe deposit company here in England, 
when the tragic incident of my Uncle's death occurred. 

As a matter of fact, this is the reason I chose to come to England 
to seek political asylum. It is very clear with the way things are now, 
that President Dos Santos will lobby the International Community to 
freeze my Uncle's assets and accounts abroad, to ground UNITA, since he 
has already done this in Angola.

I plan to use this money to safeguard my future. It is very essential 
that you understand that the kind of trust and confidence I want 
to put in you is extraordinary, and an act of desperation on my 
part, in order not to lose this money. Please, treat this contact 
with utmost secrecy and confidentiality for security and safety 
reasons.

The help I need from you is clearing the box containing the funds 
from the security company, after which, it will be deposited in 
an account in your name, with my name as next of kin. The money 
shall remain in your custody till my asylum application is granted, 
and I have the permit to conduct business, then you will transfer 
the account to me. Meanwhile, the money can be invested into risk-free 
profitable ventures, and there will an agreement to protect my 
interest. I have all the documents that will enable you claim the consignment 
from the security company.

For your reliable assistance, I will reward you with 15% of the money, 
and we shall use 5% to carry out every expenses that we come across 
during the transaction and the investment process. The remainder of the 
5%, shall be given to a charity of your choice. Please send me your telephone and
fax numbers, so that we can talk via phone, get to know each other better,
and bring you closer to the picture. 

I thank you in advance in anticipation for your assistance in enabling 
me achieve this goal. Please contact me whether or not you are 
interested in assisting me. This will enable me scout for another partner in 
the event of non-interest on your part.

NOTE:your prompt response will be appreciated.
 

Sincerely,

R.Savimbi.



