docno="lists-031-1970134"
received="Sat Apr 20 12:39:08 2002"
isoreceived="20020420163908"
sent="Sat, 20 Apr 2002 18:42:36 +0200"
isosent="20020420164236"
name="Officer Rtd Olanrewaju"
email="rtdolanrewaju@yahoo.com"
subject="REQUEST FOR AN URGENT ASSISTANCE"
id="200204201639.MAA19740@www19.w3.org"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:"svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org"<svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org>

REQUEST FOR AN URGENT ASSISTANCE 

I am Officer Rtd Olanrewaju, a former minister in the government of the
late Head of State of Federal Republic of Nigeria General Sani Abacha.
Because of my strategic position in the former Goverment, and also being a
close confidant of the Head of State, I was able to acquire personally,the
sum of US$45,000,000.00 (Forty five Million United States Dollars)
presently lodged in Union bank of Nigeria plc. 

I made this money largely through ?CONSULTANCY FEE? and Good Faith Fees?
paid by foreign oil companies prior to Allocation of Deep Water Oil Blocks
and other Lifting/prospecting Right. Nigeria is the 6th largest
Producer/Exporter of Crude Petroleum in the World. As you are probably
aware Nigeria is prone to Political/Economic Instability, hyper Inflation,
and among other problems, I have therefore resolved to invest my money
abroad, preferable in Real Estate Properties and Importation of Goods for
safety and optimum returns on Investments. 

However, straight transfer of this money into a bank abroad will present
two major problems. 1, the tax incidence will be too high, as much as 60%
of this money will go up in Taxes, Levies, Penalties etc. 2,As an Exsevice
man in a former military government on which the present democratic
government of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo is fighting very hard to freeze the
accounts of the men that serve in the government of General Abacha. So as
a result of Government deliberate restrictions on flight of capital Abroad. 

The solution is to Courier this money in cash abroad, through Courier
Service Company here in Nigeria in conjuction with an embassy here in
Nigeria, the money will be packed in a Diplomatic Bag or Carton tagged
Diplomatic lauggage which will be address to you. This system is secret
and the money is therefore untraceable. It is the system used by most top
Government officials in Nigeria to remove their fortunes to safety abroad. 

I have therefore concluded every arrangement with a Courier Company in
Nigeria to Courier this money abroad using the courtesy and safety of
Diplomatic Bag. 

All I now need is a honest partner who can receive the money on my behalf
and help me to invest as aforementioned. There is absolutely no risk
involved in this transaction as the money will be delivered to you in
United States Dollars Bills. 

If you are interested in assisting me, please send to me by email
immediately your preferred contact address where this money will be
delivered to you, upon delivery, you are to lodge this money in a bank
account and contact me for necessary arrangements for the investment. 

For your help and assistance in this deal, you will receive 20% of this
money in cash, while you keep the remaining 80% for me till my arrival to
your country. 

Finally, if you are willing to assist me, you are to please urgently email
your personal phone and fax numbers for easy communication. Your contact
address is also required so that i can use it to process the documents for
delivery destination. All these are urgently needed before we can go to
other necessary details. 

Expecting to hear from you. 

Best regards, 

Officer Rtd Olanrewaju. 
Email: olanrewajurtd@yahoo.com 
       olanrewajurtd@eudoramail.com 



