docno="lists-027-16564412"
received="Tue Jan  6 01:10:34 2004"
isoreceived="20040106061034"
sent="Tue,  6 Jan 2004 06:02:18 +0100 (CET)"
isosent="20040106050218"
name="prince_samuel"
email="prince_samuel@voila.fr"
subject="read and reply"
id="31422921.1073365338972.JavaMail.www@wwinf4002"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:prince_samuel@voila.fr


From Prince Samuel,
Green Horse Hotel,
Akpa Kpa G. R. A.,
Rep. of Benin,
Cotonou.
Email; prince_samuel@nycom



   ATTEN.
       With due respect and trust, I have decided to bring to your notice what i, and my family is going through on earth. you should please don,t entatain any atom of fear.
        I am prince SAMUEL MATHEW KA_AGBOREKUZI, the son and the only son of late OBI_KA_AGBOREKUZI 1. of AGBOR KINGDOM, the royal MAJESTY OF AGBOR KINGDOM. and also the chairman of (A.C.B.) AGBORKA COMMUNITY BANK AGBOR, under DELTA STATE OF NIGERIA.

        I left my country, NIGERIA 2001 to GHANA based on my fathers wise decission, for the security of my life, to study in KUMMASSI KINGS COLLEGE GHANA.
        My father fell sick on the 9/3/003 in his palace, his doctor confiremed that he fell under stroke, alonge the line high patension came in, he finally gave up on the 2/11/003, at the OBA of BENIN,S palace in BENIN CITY, EDO STATE of NIGERIA.
         He left his palace to OBA,S palace for the security of his life, before he died, he handed some documents over to my mother for safty purposes, amonge this documents is some documents covering the consignment he deposited with a security company in GHANA on my name, and also gave her some advice that will guide us, most expecially my life, based on the traditional law of his kingdom, that states that any king that live without a son goes like that, then the palace have to be inherited by the younger brother, which is my uncle that have been after my life for a longe time now.

          Immidiatly after his burial ceremony has been furfilled, my mother left the country with my two sisters to GHANA to see me and informed me about the present situation of things, alonge with those documents that was handed over to her by my father and she narated everything to me and took me out from GHANA to REP. of BENIN (cotonou)that my uncle will be hunting for me, he knew 
i am studying in GHANA, presently i am in cotonou with my mother and my two sisters.
           At this junture i am confuse i don,t know what to do
           The content of this consignment is the SUM OF FOURTY EIGTH MILLION U.S DOLLARS(48,000,000000)
            I need somebody that will sympatize with me, without entataining any atom of fear, there is no risk in this transaction, this is true life story not scan or whatever, the necessary documents covering the consignment is rigth here with my mother.

            I need somebody that will assist me financially in the claering of this consignment, if you have time you can come down here and do the claering with us, if you don,t have time for that, you can aswell look for any security company within your country, the consignment can be pull out of GHANA to any where in the world, through diplomatic corrier, to another security company,
 while i send the original documents to you for the clearing over there, the consignment is two silled boxes the security company does not know the content of the boxes.
            This money will be transfared into your account abroad 30% for you, 5% for the expenses incured doring the transaction.
             And also in the obtaainance of your countries visa, to enable me come over there and continue my study while my family goes back to my palace.
             I have decided to do this transaction with you, with trust and under GOD divine direction.

             If you are interested in this transaction, you should please send me your personal data including your phone number/fax/email address, for easy contact.

             Below is my hotel reseption phone number and email address, i have no personal phone line yet in this country, i and my family is presently living in that hotel.
              email; prince_ samuel@ny.com.
              phone; 00229 48 63 91

     MAY ALMITHY GOD BLESS YOU AS YOU DO THIS FOR ME.

REGARDS
PRINCE SAMUEL.

------------------------------------------

Faites un voeu et puis Voila ! www.voila.fr 



