docno="lists-029-9855195"
received="Sun May 26 00:59:51 2002"
isoreceived="20020526045951"
sent="Sun, 19 May 2002 05:50:38"
isosent="20020519095038"
name="PASCHAL DON-PEDRO"
email="paschal_p@excite.com"
subject="REQUEST FOR URGENT BUSINESS ASSISTANCE"
id="200205260459.AAA15533@tux.w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:smil-editors@w3.org

CHIEF.PASCHAL DON-PEDRO
CHAIRMAN P.T.F.
E-mail: paschal_p@excite.com

         REPLY TO:paschal_dp1@yahoo.com
                                                                       


I have the honour most respectful to write you this personal letter. I am CHIEF. PASCHAL DON-PEDRO chairman of the committee assigned to liquidate and dissolve petroleum Trust Fund  (PTF) by the president commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, CHIEF OLUSEGUN.AREMU. OBASANJO. We have two years to wound the outfit.

Sincerely speaking I have not been introduced to you by anybody but some how providence has played a tremendous role in creating this opportunity to take place at all. I collected your contact address from a collection of people in the same field as you and my intuition informed me that you can be relied upon, that is why this letter is coming to you.

It is not a norm that before one can relate to somebody, that there must be prior knowledge; trust can be established as well as earned. However, despite the few bad eggs who seem to have thrown their conscience to the thrash cans, I still believe that the world has good number of honest fellows whose words can be relied upon.

In Nigeria today, the concept of using what you have to get what you need is the order of the day. And as a chairman foisted with responsibility of wounding up a very buoyant and rich parastatal like P.T.F means a very good opportunity to better my lot in life. My foresight for picking you for this exercise is based on the premise that if you consent to work honestly and diligently with me, and if we can be sincere to each other, by the time I will be through with this liquidation exercise, both of us will have reasons to be grateful to one another.


THE ASSIGNMENT 

The PTF had several accounts across Europe, America, Asia, and Africa, from where they settled their contractors and their consultants during the period it was operational. The immediate past chairman of PTF did not utilize most of these funds, and thereby could not pay most of their contractors. Some of these accounts are having fund in excess and including accrued interest. Right now, we are compiling names of the affected foreign contractors and consulting firms that will be paid, so I want to use your company and account either personal or company, to transfer some of these funds scattered in some banks across the world. You have only to assure me of your honesty; because you will be responsible solely for the receipts and management of these funds till after the liquidation exercise.

I will prefer that, we start with some transfer with some of the funds in some of the French speaking West Africa Countries; because I would want us to meet face to face to discuss in details the investment plans.

Mean while, I will request that you send via fax, the name of your company and your banking information, I am going to enlist your name as one of the foreign consultants that handled various overseas project for the PTF. I am trusting in your honesty and sincerity to see this exercise through. And please if you know that my confidence and trust for you will not be betrayed. Your immediate response should be directed through email as above.

Expecting your immediate response.
Regards,

CHIEF PASCHAL DON-PEDRO
Alternative email:paschal_dp1@yahoo.com



