docno="lists-003-12114056"
received="Tue Dec 31 17:36:51 2002"
isoreceived="20021231223651"
sent="Tue, 31 Dec 2002 22:37:11 -0000"
isosent="20021231223711"
name="WorldSubmit"
email="worldsubmit@hotmail.com"
subject="Need to receive faxes? ...get a Free Fax to email number!"
id="200212312236.RAA16287@tux.w3.org"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:<ietf-charsets@w3.org>

(inbound) Fax-to-Email Service
Ideal 4 Home Based Business, Companies or Personal Use

Receive Faxes to your email address. Our Fax to email service allows you to receive faxes directly to your email address as email attachments. It's an easy and confidential way of receiving, storing and forwarding important fax documents, as faxes no longer sit on a shared fax machine. Incoming faxes are immediately notified to you by email. Filing of faxes and record keeping for audit purposes becomes much simpler. The service will save your business both time and money in a variety of ways. 

To enable you to sign up for the Fax to Email service you will need to sign up for a Fax telephone number. This will then be your new fax to email number. Once you have successfully completed the sign-up process we will send you details of the fax to email service to your email address. 
 
Never Miss a Fax or Have To Change Your Number Again!
 
Just look at some of the benefits of the Fax to Email service:
Receive faxes in your email address where you can forward them by email to your colleagues 
Confidential way of receiving important documents, as faxes no longer sit on a shared fax machine. 
Incoming faxes are immediately notified to you as they arrive by email. 
Filing of faxes and record keeping for audit purposes becomes much simpler. 
Your existing fax number will not be affected in any way as the two fax numbers work independently. 
Fast and easy way to receive faxes whether in the office, on the road or working from home. 
Eliminate the problem of lost faxes which can 'disappear' at the office fax machine. 
Your Fax number can simultaneously receive multiple faxes, thus improving productivity. 
Your new Fax number is never busy and is always available to receive your faxes. 
There's now no need to have a fax machine to receive faxes. 
Save money on fax paper, toner and maintenance by storing faxes as you file email today. 
Save on your telephone fax charges by forwarding faxes by email to your colleagues. 
Paper scanning service: fax a page to your Fax number, the fax will arrive in your email address.
Use your PC to send faxes more...
Are You a Non-UK Resident?
A Fax to Email Number is the perfect solution if you are a foreign-based 
company looking to set up a virtual office here in the UK.

To place an order is simple, just CLICK HERE

?10 Connection/Free Line Rental 4 Life

For more information click here

 
Your E-mail Address Removal/Deleting Instructions: This advertisement is promoting legitimate products and services. We comply with proposed Federal/UK legislation regarding unsolicited commercial e-mail by providing you with a method for your e-mail address to be permanently removed from our database and any future mailings from our company. 

To remove your address, please send an e-mail message with the word REMOVE in the subject line to: remove@just-tel.net  If you do not type the word REMOVE in the subject line, your request to be removed will not be processed.

Network Services Provided By JustTel Communications



