docno="lists-105-4418976"
received="Wed Mar 13 12:13:47 2002"
isoreceived="20020313171347"
sent="Wed, 13 Mar 2002 17:15:31 +0100"
isosent="20020313161531"
name="Jean-Henry Morin"
email="Jean-Henry.Morin@cui.unige.ch"
subject="CFP: Peer-2-Peer E-commerce Systems and Applications"
id="3C8F7B23.55E9981@cui.unige.ch"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:www-drm@w3.org


   [Our apologies if you receive multiple postings of this message]


   CALL FOR PAPERS: Peer-2-Peer E-commerce Systems and Applications
                in the Software Technology Track
                   at the Thirty-sixth Annual
          HAWAI'I INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON SYSTEM SCIENCES
                     on the Big Island of Hawaii
                        January 6 - 9, 2003

                Additional detail on the web sites:
                  http://cui.unige.ch/OSG/hicss36/
                    http://www.hicss.hawaii.edu/

The purpose of this one day minitrack is to provide a forum for researchers
and practitioners to discuss software technology issues related to the emerging
peer-2-peer paradigm. We envisage an interdisciplinary forum which brings together
participants with technology background and practitioners from both the industry
and the open source community to discuss and evaluate the technology aspect as
well as the interplay between technological capabilities and new emerging forms
of commercial electronic interaction. Examples of such systems are found in B2B
ecommerce (e.g. electronic marketplaces, mySAP, etc.) and C2C ecommerce (e.g.
information exchange communities such as Napster, Gnutella, etc.), community
efforts and P2P platforms such as Project JXTA and related technology, and
systems for digital rights management, trust management and trust computing.
Project JXTA is a recent example of community effort toward P2P computing.
Peer-2-Peer computing as a paradigm for programming distributed systems is
characterized by an increasing decentralization and autonomy of components.

Contributions of interest will be those that describe novel business interaction
and user coordination models, the supporting information systems and new types of
systems and applications supporting the peer-2-peer paradigm. Topics related to
the paradigm of peer-2-peer e-commerce include, but are not limited to, the
following:

       - security and payment mechanisms
       - mobile objects (Agents)
       - semantic transformation and discovery
       - rights languages for electronic goods and services
       - digital rights management (DRM)
       - trust management and trust computing
       - P2P system architectures
       - community platforms
       - self organizing information systems
       - auction, negotiation and bidding mechanisms
       - multi-agent systems
       - electronic marketplaces
       - support for virtual enterprises
       - real time management information systems
       - digital asset management and trading


Coordinators:

Karl Aberer
EPF Lausanne, Dept. of Communication Systems, Switzerland
E-mail: karl.aberer@epfl.ch

Jean-Henry Morin
University of Geneva - CUI, Switzerland
E-mail: Jean-Henry.Morin@cui.unige.ch

Aris Ouksel
The University of Illinois at Chicago, USA
E-mail: aris@uic.edu


IMPORTANT DEADLINES

March 31, 2002     Abstracts submitted for guidance and
                   indication of appropriate content.
June 1, 2002       Full papers submitted to Minitrack Chairs.
                   Contact minitrack chairs for submission instructions.
August 31, 2002    Notice of accepted papers sent to Authors.
October 1, 2002    Accepted manuscripts sent electronically to the
                   publisher. Author(s) must be registered for the
                   conference by this date.

The proceedings will be published by the IEEE Computer Society Press.


PROGRAM COMMITTEE

Sonia Bergamaschi, University of Modena, Italy
Peter Dadam, University of Ulm, Germany
Shamkant Navathe, Georgia Tech, USA
Oliver Gunther, Humboldt University, Germany
Ouri Wolfson, Univ. Illinois Chicago, USA
Claudio Sartori, University of Bologna, Italy
Tawfik Jelassi, ENPC, France
Peter Scheuermann, Northwestern University, USA
Manfred Hauswirth, EPFL, Switzerland
Heiko Ludwig, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Tamer Ozsu, University of Waterloo, Canada
Rachid Guerrraoui, EPFL, Switzerland
Bruno Codenotti, CNR, Italy
Ciaran Bryce, University of Geneva - CUI, Switzerland
Guy Genilloud,  Financial Systems Architects, Switzerland
Yves Pigneur, University of Lausanne - INFORGE, Switzerland
Dimitri Konstantas, University of Twente, The Netherlands
Vassilis Prevelakis, Drexel University, USA
Yair Babad, University of Illinois at Chicago, USA
Tomas Sander, InterTrust STAR Lab, USA
Esmail Salehi-Sangari, Lulea University of Technology, Sweden


INSTRUCTIONS FOR PAPER SUBMISSION:

1. Contact the Minitrack Chair in advance for specific submission
instructions.  Otherwise, submit six (6) copies of the full paper,
consisting of 22-26 double- spaced pages, including diagrams, directly
to the appropriate Minitrack Chair.  (NOTE: The final paper will be 10
pages, double-column, single spaced.)

2. Do NOT submit the manuscript to more than one Minitrack Chair.
Papers should contain original material and not be previously
published, or currently submitted for consideration elsewhere.

3. Each paper must have a title page to include title of the paper,
full name of all authors, and complete addresses including
affiliation(s), telephone number(s), and e-mail address(es).

4. The first page of the manuscript should include only the title and a
300-word abstract of the paper.

Submission Address: Morin@cui.unige.ch


THE SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY TRACK AT HICSS-36
    Chair: Hesham El-Rewini;
    Email: rewini@engr.smu.edu
    WWW  : http://www.engr.smu.edu/~rewini/cfp-stt-h36.html

For the latest information; visit the HICSS web site at:
    http://www.hicss.hawaii.edu/

HICSS conferences are devoted to advances in the information, computer,
and system sciences, and encompass developments in both theory and
practice.   Invited papers may be theoretical, conceptual, tutorial or
descriptive in nature.  Submissions undergo a peer referee process and
those selected for presentation will be published in the Conference
Proceedings.  Submissions must not have been previously published.


CONFERENCE ADMINISTRATION:

Ralph Sprague, Conference Chair
Email: sprague@hawaii.edu

Sandra Laney, Conference Administrator
Email: hicss@hawaii.edu

Eileen Dennis, Track Administrator
Email: eidennis@indiana.edu


2003 HICSS-36 CONFERENCE VENUE:

Hilton Waikoloa Village on the Big Island of Hawaii
425 Waikoloa Beach Drive
Waikoloa, Hawaii 96738
Tel: 1-808-886-1234
Fax: 1-808-886-2900
http://www.hiltonwaikoloavillage.com/



