docno="lists-107-13538411"
received="Mon Apr  1 11:09:25 1996"
isoreceived="19960401160925"
sent="Mon, 1 Apr 1996 08:09:14 -0800"
isosent="19960401160914"
name="Bill Hill"
email="billhill@microsoft.com"
subject="RE: Why TrueDoc?"
id="c=US%a=_%p=msft%l=RED-90-MSG-960401160914Z-1757@red-05-imc.itg.microsoft.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="Why TrueDoc?"
expires="-1"


To:"'www-font@w3.org'"<www-font@w3.org>,"'glen@met.bitstream.com'"<glen@met.bitstream.com>

So far, we have watched quietly while Bitstream attempts to muddy the 
water on this issue, but...

Glen, you know very well that in TrueType at least, there are bits in 
the font file which allow the original manufacturer to specify whether 
the font is embeddable in documents.
There are three levels of embedding (four, if you count embedding 
disabled)

Read-only embedding (print and preview)
Editable embedding (font useable only inside the document in which 
it's embedded)
Fully-installable (allows the font to be used anywhere)

This embedding mechanism, was agreed at a Windows Open Services 
Architecture review - in which all the major players in the font 
industry participated.

Our guess is that level 1, read-only embedding, is likely to become the 
standard on the Web - but that's entirely up to the font manufacturers.

You haven't mentioned another feature of TrueDoc: because the original 
font is not there, screen quality is poor. 

Read-only embedding provides the same protection to font vendors 
without anyone having to give up decent screen quality.

bill

----------
From:  glen@met.bitstream.com[SMTP:glen@met.bitstream.com]
Sent:  Friday, March 29, 1996 9:23 AM
To:  www-font@w3.org
Subject:  Why TrueDoc?

     
     
     Bitstream is committed to honoring all legitimate rights of type 
     designers and foundries throughout the world. The following 
influenced 
     the rock solid design of TrueDoc and positions it as the premier 
font 
     technology choice for internet developers.
     
     Bitstream and Adobe were the key players in persuading the US 
     copyright office in 1991 to change its position from one in which 
     fonts had no protection into the current position in which font 
     programs enjoy the same protection as any other software programs.
     
     Bitstream and Adobe led the lawsuit against Swfte for copyright 
     infringement of their font software programs. As part of the 
     settlement, Swfte acknowledged its acceptance and agreement with 
the 
     U.S. Copyright Office rulings permitting the registration of 
copyright 
     in certain programs used in the generation of digitized 
     representations of typeface designs in the same manner as other 
     programs.
     
     Bitstream has designed TrueDoc to provide publishers with 
identical 
     font capabilities when publishing electronic documents that they 
have 
     always enjoyed when publishing documents on paper. This makes 
fonts 
     just as useful in the emerging "distribute-and-print" world as 
they 
     were in the old "print-and-distribute" one and hence creates new 
     opportunities for font vendors.
     
     TrueDoc accomplishes this without embedding fonts, or subsets of 
     fonts, into electronic documents. It doesn't even access the 
original 
     font files themselves. Instead, TrueDoc captures the character 
shapes 
     that result from executing the fonts -- just like what happens whe  
n 
     printing the document on paper. Storing these compressed character 

     shapes with an electronic document guarantees that it can be 
viewed or 
     printed on any platform, anywhere in the world. If the original 
fonts 
     happen to be available at the viewing/printing end, they are of 
course 
     used. If not, the character shapes stored in the document by 
TrueDoc 
     provide a high fidelity alternative. All of this is accomplished 
     without risk to the font designer's intellectual property -- which 

     never leaves the point where it was legitimately installed.
     
     Because the TrueDoc approach is the electronic equivalent of 
printing 
     first and distributing second, it automatically gives publishers 
of 
     electronic documents the same rights and responsibilities in the 
use 
     of fonts as if they were distributing paper documents.
     
     Bitstream is alarmed, therefore, at the prospect of the wholesale 
     embedding of fonts into portable documents, with or without the 
     owner's permission, that seems to be implied by recent web font 
     announcements. 



