docno="lists-064-10177342"
received="Mon Jul  2 10:53:51 2001"
isoreceived="20010702145351"
sent="Mon, 02 Jul 2001 11:03:05 -0400"
isosent="20010702150305"
name="Wendy A Chisholm"
email="wendy@w3.org"
subject="Minutes from 2 July 2001 ERT (and ~AU) telecon"
id="4.2.0.58.20010702101028.0404b100@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-er-ig@w3.org
Cc:w3c-wai-au@w3.org

Participants:
Sean Palmer, Charles McCathieNevile, Wendy Chisholm, Daniel Dardailler

Summary:
- Action WC try another stab at EARL abstract.
- Action DD send perl script for WART to list
- Action WC look for  Perl packages that generate RDF and MIME attachments.
- Action WC Talk with Ralph and Eric about saving/querying EARL with Annotea
- Action WC implementation plan for WART.
- Action SP Send DD a list of possible places to meet for ER/PF F2F in 
Brighton (possibly end of 1st week of October or the week of the 15th of 
October).


Detailed minutes...
EARL abstract and DIWG

CMN cross-over between transcoding an accessibility and CC/PP (this is what 
I can deal with), and EARL (if you've got that type of profile, you 
probably can't deal with this).  Useful approaches to the same problem.

CC/PP is about profiles, EARL is about conformance.

This collection of checkpoints means conformance to a CC/PP profile.

Then they want DAML-OIL stuff - our languages do the same stuff...

I don't see EARL having a major role in there

/* WC rereads WL's reaction to initial abstract notes */

CMN EARL is QA, if go down that road

SP Wrote XSLT to save EARL in a linear form so could include in a linear 
data model.

CMN Why not put RDF in HTML?

SP No DTD for RDF, no way to validate.

Action WC try another stab at EARL abstract.

/* CMN gets DD on the phone to talk about WART */

WART

DD It's a perl script, series of CGI, that send an e-mail to the 
archive.  There is a step where data is gathered and sends e-mail. Instead 
could generate EARL report. I can send perl script to list.

Action DD send perl script for WART to list

WC Where is it?

DD There is a CGI bin directory on tux.

WC The flow of the forms need to be changed.

DD Right, comments from a while back that weren't 
implemented.  wai/report/db it gets a dozen or less messages.  Where would 
the EARL piece go? attachments?  The mail is text.

CMN Eric has an RDF database that we could pump into and query another 
alternative is post as an annotea annotation.

WC First piece just to generate it.

DD Would like to see pointer from archive message to eARL, either as an 
attachment or another URL - pointer. Somehow pointer between EARL and 
report.  Attachment is easiest way. Hopefully perl package to generate MIME 
attachment easily. Or attach as n3, but harder to read.  Perl package for 
RDF?

Action WC look for  Perl packages that generate RDF and MIME attachments.

CMN Syntax for generating Annotea is simple. Worth working out with them. 
Eric and Ralph.

DD Not sure worth it. It's independent. It's reusing it by different tools.

CMN Annotea will give it a home URI where we can get it from.  There will 
be an RDF document that will be linked.  It would also give Jose a target 
to start looking at how to deal with them in Amaya and Giorgio with 
usablenet stuff.  They have a place to put and get EARL from.

DD The attachment will give it a URI.

CMN Annotea will give a typed relationship.  Can do an annotea query on a page.

Action WC Talk with Ralph and Eric about saving/querying EARL with Annotea

CMN Write up an implementation plan to see how reuse with ATAG.

Action WC implementation plan for WART.


ER F2F

DD Join with PF beginning of October in Europe.

Action SP: Send DD a list of possible places to meet for ER/PF F2F in Brighton.

DD Oxford?

SP A bit far.

WC 1 day PF, 1 day ER?

DD 2 or 3 days, yes.

end of week of 1st or week of 15th.


--
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
seattle, wa usa
tel: +1 206.706.5263
/--



