docno="lists-004-0896920"
received="Sat Feb 15 15:36:57 2003"
isoreceived="20030215203657"
sent="Sat, 15 Feb 2003 15:36:54 -0500"
isosent="20030215203654"
name="Dr. Carter, President"
email="MustBookofyear2003@address.com"
subject="To: ietf-charsets  as  a  Nicer  Person"
id="413-220032615203654480@address.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:"ietf-charsets@w3.org"<ietf-charsets@w3.org>


Dear ietf-charsets:

You may ask yourself
      >    How to make people like you and respect you
      >    How to win friends
      >    How to let your conduct help your health, work, job, career, success, relationships, spirit,  mind, well-being, ...
      >    How to make your life smoother and happier 
      >    How to do whatever you like without being unpleasant to other people 
      >    How to develop good conduct in your children or students 
      >    How to make the world peaceful and better

You can find all the answers to these questions, and much more, in this great handbook:
 
" Complete Conduct Principles for the 21st Century " by Dr. John Newton 

It is the best educational GIFT idea for children, friends, relatives, classmates, students, parents, teachers, other educators, ..., particularly at this special time. 

BENEFITS to each individual reader: Many! -- such as for health, work, job, career, success, self-improvement, education, relationships, spirit, mind, well-being, and much more -- almost all the areas that are important to you in the 21st century. People around you will benefit, too. (Please see the preface of the book for details.) 

EVERYONE may find this handbook useful and helpful, regardless of age (from children to oldsters), occupation, rank, status, gender, religious belief, race, nationality, country, or region. 

If you are a parent or a teacher, you can learn how to develop good conduct in your children or students from this handbook. Please advise your children or students to read the book. It will result in great benefits for both you and them. 

(Note: If you are interested in the issue of School Violence, Youth Problems, Violence Prevention, or Conduct Education in the 21st Century, please see the APPENDIX below.)  

This book is a must for EVERYONE to be better prepared for personal conduct for the rest of the 21st century.

The book's content is obvious from its title. The complete useful conduct principles cover not only what we should do, but also what we should not do -- especially those faults people make often and easily. 

This timely, unique, and very important handbook is designed to suit most people, and is self-contained and user-friendly. 

The book was also praised as "a compendium of concisely expressed, practical, informative, pertinent, workable advice" by Michael J. Carson, a professional book reviewer.

This book is significantly different and better than competitive works.

Some of its innovative contents may help solve problems that the Western culture cannot. 

The book's merit and importance have been recognized and praised by many experts, elected public officials, and world leaders.

As a result of popular demand, the book has been a top "Featured Item" in some top on-line bookstores in some subjects, such as "Personal Practical Guides" in "Nonfiction" and "Reference", "Conduct" in "Health, Mind & Body", "Life skills guides", ...   

How to make the world peaceful and better ---
You can find the solution in the book.
Let's work together to make the world peaceful and better! 

The author, John Newton, holds a Ph.D. from MIT, and does researches at Harvard. His long-term research on "The personal conduct in the human society of the 21st century" resulted in this book. It is published by Nicer Century World Organization, headquartered beside Harvard University and MIT, two leading institutes of new knowledge and literature. The publisher has a deep commitment to publishing only the best.

The book is available in two types of binding: Hardcover (ISBN 0967370574; case bound, Smyth sewn; with dust jacket) and Paperback (ISBN 0967370582; perfect bound). Both editions are unabridged, and are printed on 60 lb, natural, acid-free, excellent and healthful paper. You can get the book from many fine on-line bookstores and traditional bookstores. For your convenience, (if you wish for an Internet link; otherwise you may skip this section)  I herewith provide you with a link directly to the book page in the shopping directory of Yahoo!, the world's No. 1 Internet directory (Some bookstores there may currently offer great discounts) (The publisher and yahoo.com have no relationship):

http://shopping.yahoo.com/shop?d=b&id=1967680641&cf=setup

Please forward this e-mail to people you know -- children, friends, relatives, classmates, students, parents, teachers, other educators, ..., because they can benefit from it, too. This can be a wonderful kindness you provide to them!

ietf-charsets, best wishes to you!


Sincerely yours,

Tom Carter, Ph.D.
President, Nicer Century World Organization
Massachusetts, USA

(Nicer Century World Organization is an educational, non-profit, non-partisan organization; it endeavors to make the 21st century nicer than ever before. To accomplish its mission, Nicer Century World Organization is proud to introduce this book.) 


P.S.
To have more people benefit from the book, please consider suggesting to the schools -- your children attend, or you yourself attend, have attended before, teach at, or serve -- that the book be used for fundraising for the schools. The book is an ideal fundraising tool. For example, it may used as a premium or a re-sale product for the fundraising. The successful fundraising will significantly help school education. Better yet, each supporter and his/her family will benefit from the book. Suggesting to the parent-teacher associations (organizations) (PTA/PTO) of the schools is also a good idea.

-----------------------------------------------------------

APPENDIX: School Violence, Youth Problems, Violence Prevention, and Conduct Education in the 21st Century

In recent years school violence has made many pieces of nation-shaking highlighted headline news, which have astounded the Americans. It may happen at any school, at any time, and by students of any age. Some experts believe this is the most important national crisis the U.S. is facing. 

"In the 21st century the problem will happen not only continuously in the U.S. but also in lots of other countries all over the world, if we do not act." said Dr. John Newton in the late 20th century. Recent tragedies have proved this warning prediction.

"The most effective and proper way to solve the problem is appropriate conduct education." said Dr. Newton.

"The significance of the problem" is much more important than "the number of people killed in schools". 

In addition to shooting and killing, other kinds of school violence, such as rape, sexual assault, aggravated assault, robbery, bullying, mugging, fighting, theft, harassment, ..., and other youth problems, like suicide, suicide attempt, suicide inclination, pessimism, sense of inferiority, lose of  self-control, relationship problems, emotion problems, drug abuse, discrimination, ..., cannot be ignored, either.

Some measures may handle a few "symptoms" temporarily and partially but are not solutions for education, particularly in view of our responsibilities for the whole society.

Now an effective, proper, comprehensive, deep-rooted and permanent solution is needed!

The book, "Complete Conduct Principles for the 21st Century" by Dr. John Newton, is regarded as "the very one that can effectively help solve the problem of school violence in a right way" by some experts in education, including Dr. Steve White, who pointed out clearly: "If students, teachers and parents can learn the conduct principles in this book well, then that 'unsolvable' problem will be solved.  It is not difficult at all to learn them, because the book is a simple, easy, clear, convenient and self-contained handbook, well designed to suit most people."

"Unlike most books of this subject, it is NOT a religious book, nor is a collection of old conduct rules." 

As analyzed in the Preface of the book, "from now on learning good conduct should be placed as No. 1 in education." 

The book's merit and importance have been recognized and praised by many education experts, elected public officials, and world leaders. Some educational units, ranging from the level of nation or state to individual school or university, have ordered the book as textbook, reference book, gift to students, or as an active action to prevent school violence, to improve education and to benefit students, teachers & parents. 

"The book will also be effective for violence prevention for the whole society." said some experts.

Hence, to prevent school violence and other violence, to improve education, and to benefit students, teachers, parents, & the whole society, I earnestly request you to inform the students, teachers, parents, libraries and other relevant people you know of the availability of the book.

A reasonable method you may consider choosing is to simply  forward this letter to them.

Although it will be helpful and appreciated, it is NOT necessary that you state any endorsement or the like.

Your efforts to prevent school violence and other violence, to improve education, and to benefit students, teachers, parents, & the whole society will be highly appreciated.



