docno="lists-082-0134837"
received="Fri Mar  6 17:25:41 1998"
isoreceived="19980306222541"
sent="Fri, 06 Mar 1998 17:18:37 -0500"
isosent="19980306221837"
name="Kitch Barnicle"
email="kitch@afb.org"
subject="checklist items"
id="3.0.32.19980306171836.00721cc8@pop.igc.apc.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ui@w3.org

Hi all, It's getting late. I hope this makes sense. I had a hard
time ranking some items, because if one feature is implemented
it makes others features non-essential. 

In taking the first stab at ranking the features listed below, 
I tried to ignore that fact that some browsers may have 
already implemented these features. While I think these 
browsers can serve as a model for our discussions I wanted 
to avoid setting priorities relative to an existing product. However,
we may want to survey all the existing browsers and 
make a list  of the best features from each.

Generally, I see the top few priorities as:

1. Allowing the user to set colors and fonts, either by passing through OS
settings
or allowing the user to configure his or her own settings within the browser.

2.  Providing full keyboard navigation through all browser features and all
web pages. 
I guess we could say that Lynx and IE already meet this requirement, if
pages are
authored correctly. However, now we need strategies for better keyboard
navigation.

3. Providing status and location information.  The browser should display
the current focus
 at all times so that assistive devices can follow the cursor. The user
should also be able 
to exercise appropriate control over the focus.

4. Providing information on where the cursor is in the document relative to
the rest
of the document and  providing information about the document in general. 

5. Allowing the user to set preferences for displaying certain information in
menus, on the status line or new windows.
 
Browser User Interface Accessibility Check List
1=highest, 2=middle, 3 lowest priority, ADD=Item to add, 
?=I do not have enough information or understanding to 
make a recommendation,
KB:=my comments 

Presentation Adjustability

? Author CSS disable 
? Author color disable 
? Author font disable 
? Author background disable 

KB: I guess I am confused about author disable too. 

1 User CSS override 
1 User foreground/background color override 
1 User font style and size override 

1 Display only ALT text for images (complete ALT text) 
KB: Should the word OBJECT be substituted for image above?

1   Display TITLES for anchors that are images 
?   Display LONGDESC descriptions on user command 

KB: Can the browser generate a list of the page's objects using their alt 
tags and then have these alt tags linked to their LONGDESC?

1  Display view option based on users preferences of selected elements 

KB: Based on what I read in the draft browser guidelines,
I am envisioning that the browser would generate a list of elements such as
the headers, links, tables, objects, etc.  The user would then have the
ability to
choose which elements would be included in this list. 

? Maintain relative focus positions between views 
KB: I am not exactly sure what this means, however maintaining
focus when switching between documents and applications should be a high
priority.

Orientation Information

3 Document TITLE in title line 
1 KB: Providing document summary information is a high priority and the
display of this information should also be based user preferences.

I would suggest that when the document loads, the status line
includes document information similar the example in the browser
guidelines.
 
For example, 
"Document is 2635 bytes long with 22 headers, 14 links, 1 table and 5 form
controls".

Then, once the focus move to an element the status line is updated with
information about that element relative to the rest of the document.

For example, "Header 2 of 6,  40%" where 40% represents the cur
sor position relative to the whole document. This is just a guess, I 
haven't really thought it out.

Finally, it would be nice if additional page information can be accessed 
through a user command. For example, Netscape 4.04 has a page info 
command that provides a document summary including
document size. 

Navigation Commands

1  Move to previous element, next element, and from a list of
 elements (created by the browser)  to a specific element in that list for :

LINK, 
HEADER, 
LIST ITEM , 
FORM CONTROLS, 
TABLE, 
FRAMES

KB: I am still not sure I am using the word list correctly. Are we talking
about a
list of elements the browser would create or an item in a bulleted list?

In addition to the above:

Link
1 Move to a link from command line (from previous post)

Tables
1 Move to next column 
1 Move to next row 

KB: The user needs to be able to use keystrokes to move browser's focus
through 
a table's rows and columns while accessing row and column names from the 
status line. As above, it would be nice if the user could choose which
items he or she would like displayed on the status line.

? Find in table 

KB: Does "find in table" mean the user should have 
the ability to search for a text string within a table?

Forms
1 Move focus to beginning of form (added from previous post)
? Change state of control (control dependent)
KB: I am not sure what this means?

DHTML Events

3 Suspend 
2 Move to previous element with DTHML event 
2 Move to next element with DTHML event 
2 Activate event 

Visibility of Accessibility Information

1 Display keyboard equivalents on associated menu items 
1 Display navigation commands in menus 
1 Description of navigation command and selection options in on-line
documentation 
1 Description of presentation options in on-line documentation 
1 Description of orientation information options in on-line documentation 

Compatibility with 3rd Party Assistive Technology

? Use Active Accessibility in Windows 95/NT Code 
1 Use SUNSoft Java Accessibility API in Java Code 
? Use of Standard OS Controls/Menus/Dialog boxes 


? 



