docno="lists-027-14943998"
received="Tue Dec 19 08:59:47 2000"
isoreceived="20001219135947"
sent="Tue, 19 Dec 2000 08:59:08 -0500"
isosent="20001219135908"
name="by way of "
email="gauri@gmd.de"
subject="RCDL2001 (Russia): call for papers"
id="200012191359.IAA23130@tux.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:semantic-web@w3.org

[freed from spam trap -rrs]

 Date: Tue, 19 Dec 2000 08:02:02 -0500 (EST)
 From: Gauri Salokhe <gauri@gmd.de>
 Message-Id: <200012191402.PAA03773@orestes.gmd.de>
 To: semantic-web@w3.org

Russian Foundation for Basic ResearchKarelian Research Centre, Russian
Academy of Sciences
Moscow ACM SIGMOD Chapter
Petrozavodsk State University
Institute of Applied Mathematical Research, KRC of RAS

Third  All-Russian Scientific Conference

"Digital Libraries: Advanced Methods And Technologies, Digital 
Collections"

First announcement and call for papers 

Petrozavodsk, September 11-13, 2001, 

http://rcdl2001.krc.karelia.ru

The Conference is open for the international participation

Objective

Digital Libraries (DL) is a field of research and development aiming to
promote the theory and practice of processing, dissemination, storage,
search and analysis of various digital data.  Digital Libraries acting
as knowledge depositories can be considered as complex information
systems, development and use of which require solution of numerous
scientific, technological, methodological, economic, legal and other
issues. Digital Libraries technologies are rapidly developing.
Challenges in semantics, integration of information, perception and
presentation of various kinds of data call for significant
innovations.  Development of Digital Libraries technologies is becoming
more and more essential for raising of the standards of health care,
education, science and economy, as well as the quality of life on the
whole. Projects devoted to  generation of the digital form of the
information concerning the Earth, Universe, Literature, Art,
Environment and Humans, accumulated by the humanity, are  examples of
the intensive development of global information repositories.

The 2001 All-Russian Conference is the third conference on this subject
(1999  St.  Petersburg, 2000 - Protvino). The principal objective of
the series of conference is to promote the constituting of a community
of Russian experts involved in researches related to Digital Libraries.
The Conference offers such a community an opportunity to discuss ideas
and outcomes and to make contacts  for closer cooperation. The
Conference also promotes the study of international experience,
development of the international cooperation on Digital Libraries. In
view of this, papers describing the advanced directions of research and
development are welcome. Much attention will be paid to pilot
applications and digital collections developed within the RFBR projects
on Digital Libraries and other programmes.

The Conference topics include but are not limited to:

- Models and standards for information and metainformation
representation (including thesauri and ontologies) in DL
- Methods and tools for data search, discovery, retrieval and analysis
in DL
- Access to distributed and heterogeneous digital collections:
interoperability, scalability, relevant information discovery,
metainformation integration
- Open architectures for digital information environments
- Methods and tools for DL use. Intelligent user interfaces, agent
technologies, cooperative work on the data, data visualization
(rendering) and analysis
- Analysis and processing of the natural languages, images, video-,
audio- and other data
- Multilingual data access and multilingual data service
- DL, DL prototype and digital collections for science, education,
culture, health care and management
- Digital collections in traditional libraries, museums, archives,
information centers
- Advanced technologies of digital collection generation, storage and
system maintenance
- Digital collection cataloging, indexing, referencing, maintenance of
integrity and consistency
- DL security and information protection

The Conference Proceedings will be published.

Dates and venue

The Conference will be held on September 11-13, 2001 in Petrozavodsk at
the Institute of Applied Mathematical Research (IAMR), Karelian
Research Centre (KRC), Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS).  Petrozavodsk
is the capital of the Republic of Karelia. The city is located on the
Onego Lake shore. A trip by railway from St. Petersburg takes app. 8
hours, from Moscow  about 14 hours. It takes 1 h. 20 min. to get from
Helsinki (Finland) to Petrozavodsk by air.  More detailed information
about Karelia can be found at http://www.karelia.ru.  Participants will
be accommodated in the Belye klyuchi hotel and resort centre
(http://aurinko.karelia.ru/u/kluchi). Onega lake tour with the Kizhi
open-air museum visit is planned.


Paper submission

The Conference languages are Russian and English. Extended abstracts
and papers can be in any of the languages. Simultaneous translation of
the presentations from Russian into English will be offered for foreign
participants.

Original, not published before submissions are solicited. Extended
abstracts either in Russian or in English should be e-mailed to the
program committee at rcdl2001@krc.karelia.ru in the format HTML 3.2
(frames, style sheets, ActiveX, JavaScript, Java-applet and dynamic
HTML elements are not allowed); images in the formats GIF and JPEG can
be used. When e- mailing extended abstracts, the text and each image
should be sent as attached files. Abstracts in Russian are accepted in
the ISO-8859-5, Windows-1251 or KOI8-R character set.

The size of extended abstracts is from 2 to 5 pages (app. 3500 to 10000
characters, HTML tags excluded). Abstracts should provide quite a
complete idea of the paper content, include the references to the
publications and/or the Internet resources.



Important deadlines

1. Submission of extended abstracts:  March 31, 2001
2. Notification of acceptance: May 31, 2001
3. Camera-ready full papers due:  June 30, 2001.

Instructions for the preparation of full text camera-ready papers will
be provided later.

Organizing committee

Chair -- Vladimir Mazalov, Director of  IAMR, KRC of RAS, Petrozavodsk

Members:

Leonid Kalinichenko -- Institute for Problems of Informatics, RAS
Veniamin Myasnikov --  Academician, Far-East division of RAS
Vladimir Nechiporenko -- Ministry of Industry, Science and Technology, Moscow
Natalia Ruzanova -- Petrozavodsk State University
Anatoli Sorokin -- IAMR, KRC of RAS
Alexandr Titov -- KRC RAS
Victor Vasiliev -- Petrozavodsk State University
Aleksei Zhizhchenko -- corresponding member of RAS, Moscow

For organizational issues please contact

Vladimir Vdovitsyn, e-mail: vdov@krc.karelia.ru
Vladimir Tarasov, e-mail: tarasov@krc.karelia.ru

Institute of Applied Mathematical Research, Karelian Research Centre of RAS,
11 Pushkinskaya St, 185610 Petrozavodsk, Republic of Karelia, Russia
tel.: (814 2) 77 11 08, 77 63 12, fax: (814 2) 77 63 13

Program Committee

Co-chairs:
Vladimir Vdovitsyn -- IAMR KRC RAS
Leonid Kalinichenko -- Institute for Problems of Informatics, RAS
Oleg Siountiourenko -- Russian Foundation for Basic Research

Program Committee members:

Sergei Arnautov -- Semenov Institute of Chemical Physics Russian Academy of
Science
Jose Luis Borbinha -- BN/IST/INESC, Portugal
Yuri Buchstab -- Keldysh Institute of Applied Mathematics, RAS
Vasily Bunakov -- State Research Center Institute for High Energy Physics
Vladimir Ezhela -- State Research Center Institute for High Energy Physics
Anatolii Fedotov -- United Institute of Computer Science SB RAS
Yuri Hohlov -- Institute of Information Society Development
Nikolai Kalenov -- Natural Science Library, RAS
Victor Kapustin -- Interdisciplinary Centre, St. Petersburg State University
Eugeny Kazakov -- All-Russian Research Information Centre 
Mikhail Kogalovsky -- Market Economy Institute, RAS
Nikolai Kolchanov -- Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Siberian Branch, RAS
Victor Lebedev -- IAMR KRC RAS
Nikolay Maksimov -- Russian State University for Humanities
Boris Novikov -- University of St. Petersburg
John V. Richardson Jr. -- UCLA, Information Studies, USA
Vladimir Serebryakov -- Computing Centre of RAS, Moscow
Guennadi Sigovtsev -- Petrozavodsk State University
Alan F. Smeaton --  Dublin City University, Ireland
Vladimir Tarasov -- IAMR KRC RAS
Alexandr Tomilin -- Institute of System Programming, RAS
Oleg Zhizhimov -- United Institute of of Geology, Geophysics and
Mineralogy, SB RAS
Victor Zakharov -- Institute of Informatics Problems, RAS
Sergei Znamensky -- Program System Institute, RAS, Pereslavl University

Program Committee is expected to be extended with a few members from Europe
and USA.

European Coordinator: Norbert Fuhr (University of Dortmund, Germany)

ACM SIGIR Liaison: Christine Borgman (UCLA, USA)



