docno="lists-004-5248156"
received="Wed Sep 17 20:40:42 2003"
isoreceived="20030918004042"
sent="Thu, 18 Sep 2003 02:40:12 +0200"
isosent="20030918004012"
name="marian_ab@tiscali.co.uk"
email="marian_ab@tiscali.co.uk"
subject="I NEED YOUR URGENT CO-OPERATION"
id="3F608AF100014058@mk-cpfrontend-1.mail.uk.tiscali.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To: undisclosed-recipients: ;


Dear Friend,

It is with heartfelt hope that I write to seek your
co-operation and assistance in the context stated
below: May I first introduce myself I am marian Abacha, the wife of Late
General Sani Abacha
(former Military head of state and President of the
Federal Republic of Nigeria) who died suddenly on 8th
June 1998. I got your contact through the help of a
friend that works with the Chambers of Commerce and
Tourism. Having noted the confidence reposed on your
person by the sponsor of the recommendation, I became
convinced of your capability and goodwill to assist me
in receiving the sum of US$25 Million secretly kept in
vaults with a security companies in my favour by my
late husband.
This money was kept with a Security Company in Canada
and Amsterdam, the Netherlands and I have all
documents with me as of when it was deposited with the
Security Vault for safekeeping. This money has been
defaced for Security reasons and also to avoid it been
spent by unauthorized persons. We have been
deliberating on how to invest this fund abroad in a
confidential manner until we came to a conclusion to
use it to buy estates and part of it will be used for
non-speculative investments in your country.

However, the current civilian administration of
retired General Olusegun Obasanjo (The President of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria) is seeking vengeance
on the Abacha family because of the life prison jail
sentence confirmed on him by my late father while in
office. In pursuit of this vendetta, the present
Government have resolved to freeze all known assets of
General Sani Abacha including properties at home and
abroad and are presently embarking on to seize the
various bank accounts of my husband in Switzerland, UK
and Australia. In fact, the attack on our family (The
Abacha's) is so devastated to an extent of seizing our
traveling passport, family accounts and even trying
some members of our family in court for offences
allegedly committed by my father.

I was arrested and incarcerated for the past 3years
and was just release from detention on the agreement
to refund $1.5 Billion to the Government of my country
allegedly acquired by my late father. Find out on
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/909972.stm
We are not ready to comply with this, as most of our
family assets and bank accounts abroad have been
frozen by the Obasanjo regime. In view of this
grievous threat to our Economic and personal survival,
our family trustee have secretly protected the will,
The Security Company has called me to do something
about claiming this consignment because of the
demurrage it is incurring and I told them we would
come and claim it very soon but they seriously advised
me to move the fund into an overseas amount, hence the
reason why I have chosen you and hope that you will
come to my full assistance and unlimited co-operation
to help me collect the consignment of money and help
me invest it to prevent my losing the funds.

In the meantime, there is a traveling embargo on the
family members and our local accounts are seized. We
are currently living on goodwill of people who believe
we cannot be held responsible for the sins of my late husband. In view of
this plight, I expect you to be
trustworthy and kind enough to respond to this
distressed call to save our family from a hopeless
future. And if you agree to help, we will compensate
you sincerely for your candid effort in this regard
with 15% of the total amount of $25 Million US
Dollars. In that case, when the consignment of money
(US$25 Million), you will be allowed to withdraw 15%
in your favor, while 10% has been set aside for any
expenses you might incur (There are demurrage to pay
before the fund is sign and claimed by you,but that is
our business,all expenses will be taken care of by
us,through an investor during the process of securing
this fund. The remaining 65% will be invested
meaningfully for our family future.
I look forward to your quick response while thanking
you for your co-operation. In view of all above
details, I request you to keep this mail and
co-operation highly confidential even if you are not
interested.

Best wishes,
marian Abacha.



