docno="lists-014-9307195"
received="Fri Apr 23 08:30:53 2004"
isoreceived="20040423123053"
sent="Thu, 22 Apr 2004 16:52:16 0400"
isosent="20040422205216"
name="Elihu E. El"
email="eel@scsnet.csc.com"
subject="Elihu Eli El"
id="085F43A0A8371D4985168728419EF02F02051026@scsetbmail.scsnet.csc.com"
charset="iso-88591"
expires="1"


To:<public-comments-wcag20@w3.org>

Thursday, April 22, 2004

Elihu Eli El
140 Manor Drive
Beckley, WV  25801
Phone: 304-253-6759
eli_el@hotmail.com <mailto:eli_el@hotmail.com>


Dear Technical Recruiter,


Do you require an experienced computer programming looking to fill a position in Engineering, Database Management, Software Development, System Management, Technical Support, Quality Assurance, Testing, Client Support, Programming, or software and hardware installation and support? If so, my many years of experience in the computer industry combined with my formal training and my demonstrated lifelong learning may be just the person and skill set you seek.  I am grateful for this opportunity to formally introduce myself.  Although my name is unique, I am an American citizen by birth.  I am from Kansas City, KS.  I am currently working for a Department of Defense government contractor.  I have an active security clearance of secret.  My goal is to become an active and significant contributor to the field of Software Development and Engineering.  I possess skills in Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS), GUI development, and object-oriented (classes) programming. I have good presentation and technical oral/written communication skills.  I have exceptional ability to quickly install, configure, and master new software and to apply its full range of features.  I am a hard working person whom maintains a high level of diligence and work ethic.  I am physically fit and in good health.  I am comfortable exercising my body just as I do my mind.  As a Programmer Analyst with your organization, I would bring a focus on quality and efficiency to your group's IT missions and objectives.  Salary is negotiable within the range of $60,000 - $90,000.  I have professional team leadership training.  I have recently completed a professional course in software project management.  My ability to resolve many varied and complex problems, combined with programming skills and outstanding organizational skills, are indicative of my potential as a IT professional with your group.  

I previously held the position of Programmer Analyst with CDM.   This is another DOD contractor.  I have also used Maple to solve and graph Differential Equations. During 1995 through 1996, I worked as a Law Enforcement Officer for The State of Georgia.  I am confident my education, skills, and experience would prove beneficial to your group as well as your clients and would welcome an opportunity to discuss my qualifications with you in person.  I am willing to relocate.  I can be reached at 304-253-6759.  Would you acknowledge that you have received a good copy of this letter and resume?  Thank you for your attention and consideration.



Sincerely,


Elihu Eli El
Elihu Eli El
140 Manor Drive; Beckley, WV  25801
Phone: 304-253-6759
eli_el@hotmail.com <mailto:eli_el@hotmail.com>
http://resumes.yahoo.com/eli72117/c4isrprogrammer




5 years application development and information technology experience.  



*Proficient in: Visual Basic 6.0, VBScript, and SQL
*Familiar with: Lisp, Ada, Prolog, Visual C++, ANSI C, FORTRAN, Pascal, ASP, & CICS
*Databases: Oracle 8i and Microsoft Access
*Platforms: Windows 2000, Windows 9*, Windows NT 4.0, Unix/Red Hat Linux 5.2, IBM Primos, and VMS

Security Clearances
Level - Secret: Last updated 16SEP03

Education
Returned to college in 1999, completed in 2001: Private Consulting Part-Time
B.S. in Computer Science, Math minor 2001
University of Arkansas; Little Rock, Arkansas

Programmer / Software Test Engineer
CDI / CSC (www.csc.com), APR03 - Present
TASKS:  TLDD / JCALS (http://www.pdsm.wpafb.af.mil/jcals/jcals_program_description.htm) Software Test Engineer for CSC (Computer Sciences Corporation).  Practice methodologies and use tools that are in place to support the activities of the Test Group.  Conduct formal tests and participate in procedure development. Execute defined test procedures that are requirements based and user oriented.  Conduct formal tests and participate in procedure development.  Regression and Sanity tests.  Change Requests Management.  Testing the software and system development prior to delivery to the customer.  Test Group is responsible for the System Test Plan (STP), System Test Procedures (STPR), and Product Assurance Validation (PAV).  The STP contains the qualification method or methods for each valid systems requirement.  The STPR contains step-by-step procedures necessary to satisfy the requirements specified for the given test procedures.  The TLDD (Tactical Logistics Data Digitization) project is an initiative that will provide Army equipment operators, mechanics, and supervisors with rapid digital access to improved technical data on the battlefield, in the motor pool, and during institutional training of the war fighter and tactical user.  The primary enabling IT infrastructure components of TLDD consist of PDA's, laptop computers, and a wireless LAN.  VBScripting with Windows 2000 scripting.  Examine each of the test requirements (new features and regression tests) identified in the Function Requirements Description of the Technical Integration Implementation Plan.  TLDD Technical writings include: Program of Instruction (POI), Software User Manuals (SUM), and Lesson Plans.

Programmer Analyst
CDM (www.pmcl.com), FEB02 - APR03
TASKS:  Programmer Analyst with CDM.  Used control and analysis tools to build reports.  My team and I used these reports to perform analysis on schedule related data.  GUI development protected by Visual Source Safe.  Developed applications using Visual Basic 6.0 and Oracle 8i.  The information derived from this data is used to point out our past mistakes and potential problems.  Developed three-tier application based on client / sever model for enterprise.  Used Object Oriented Programming techniques.  Utilized various datagrids to produce results as defined by the client.  Had performed in a developmental role for a United States Department of Defense contractor.  These applications require real-time screen updates, developer tools, and ActiveX controls.  Used Data Manipulation Language during application development to manipulate the information stored in the database with SQL statements.  Declared recordset objects to manipulate the rows of a cursor, view their fields, and update underlining table via DML while navigating through the recordsets.  Datamined using queries involving advanced outer-joins.  This project involved mapping hierarchical recordsets to treeview controls.  Created modularized procedures that were dedicated for error handling.  Changed every event, function, procedure (over 200 in total) to call one consistent and easily amendable error handler.  Feature-driven development requires the use of events, methods, and / or properties of the following: Treeview, MS FlexGrid, StatusBar, Imagelist, Toolbar, ListView, Class Instance Objects, Collection, ImageCombobox, Protoview's Datatable, Key, Mouse, Timer, and others as needed.  Use Oracle Designer for database analysis for historical data conversion. Used embedded ADO code to access Oracle 8i database from within Visual Basic Applications.  I was a team member of Business Intelligence that was tasked to conduct historical data conversion.  This evolves data migration as well as heavy data analysis using Oracle Developer 2000.  Data conversations also involved pl/sql and T-SQL.  Tools such as Toad, SQL Plus, Oracle Designer, and In-housed products were used for this responsibility.  Provided support and enhancements to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineer's Regulatory Information Management System (RIMS).  RIMS is a software development project that is approaching its fourth year of development.  The RIMS system establishes a national standard for data and information requirements within the Regulatory program that can be accessed throughout the entire Corps management hierarchy; particularly by Regulatory project management personnel.  This software application delivers data in a graphical format for review and analysis on the user's desktop.  Thus, users receive U.S. Army Corp of Engineers' information in an easily understandable format for used in day-to-day operations.  Additionally, this component involves development of a Microsoft Visual Basic application using a variety of components and techniques to create a unique and user-friendly application for the Regulatory community. 

Additional Coursework
Ada language as defined by MIL-STD-1815 (A) and by the ANSI MIL-STD-1815A-1983.  
CSE 480, Introduction to Software Project Management, Air Force Institute of Technology <http://ls.afit.edu/spdp/default.htm>.

Certifications
United States Army Instructor: Granted 15DEC03
Total Army Instructor Training Course (TAITC) - Army instructors are skilled at training techniques, which will lead to a more cohesive, mission-capable Army.  <http://pao.hood.army.mil/NCOA/itc.htm>

Recent Conferences
C4ISR Architecture Conference
Washington, D.C. USA March 29-30, 2004 
This conference was intended for anyone who needs to create, maintain, or review analysis and design models or documents based on the DoD Architecture Framework.

Among the many critical issues addressed:
*Step-by-Step Guidelines for Developing and Implementing Executable C4ISR Architectures 
*A Look at What Alternate C4ISR Architecture Representations Exist & What Are Their Uses? 
*Understanding & Implementing the Software Communications Architecture
*What are the Minimum Required DoDAF Architectural Products?
*Expert Tips on Developing Practical & Scalable DoDAF-compliant C4ISR Architectures 
*Meeting the Requirements for C4ISR Architecture Support for Interoperability 
*Proven Methods for Defining Useful Information Exchange Requirements 
*Expert Insights on Creating Executable C4ISR Architectures 
*Tools and Techniques for Estimating & Managing the Cost of Architecture Development

Complementary work experience
1/1990 - 1/2004United States Army ReserveCombat Engineer and Army Instructor

4/98 - 9/98Entergy (www.entergy.com <http://www.entergy.com>)
L.R., ARInformation Specialist
TASKS:  Database analysis for regional utility provider.  Provided technical support in database management of potential exposures and application evaluation of Y2K compliance.  Utilized Microsoft Access a primary tool.  Maintained multiple databases aimed specifically at hardware and host application re-development or updating to Y2K compliance.  Navigated within Access.  Added field level error troubleshooting.  Established relations between tables.  Established and maintained referential integrity.  Designed Queries.  Created and used forms.  Used Access with Microsoft Word and mail merge.  Created and executed queries using the expression builder, wizard, as well as user defined SQL.  Made updates and changes to the database (DAO insert, delete, etc.) and properties via VBA.  Printed reports.  Exported to Microsoft Excel.

5/00 - 12/00Sylvan Learning Center (www.sylvanlearningcenter.com <http://www.sylvanlearningcenter.com>)
L.R., AR Mathematics Instructor
TASKS:  Mathematics instruction to students in grades 1 through 12.

1997 - 1998First Commercial Bank (www.regions.com <http://www.regions.com>)
L.R., AR Information Specialist, MS Access
TASKS:  Database analysis for banking project.  Provided technical support in database management of potential exposures and application evaluation of Y2K compliance.  Utilized Microsoft Access a primary tool.  Communicated, conference, scheduled meetings, etc. through Microsoft Project.  Maintained multiple databases aimed specifically at hardware and host application re-development or updating to Y2K compliance...Please refer to Entergy.



REFERENCES UPON REQUEST <<ole0.bmp>> 
 <<Resume3.doc>> 

Elihu Eli El
eel@scsnet.csc.com
Test Engineer
Southeastern Regional Operations Center
CSC / Hinton
(304)-466-7258

 <<Elihu E. El.vcf>> 








application/msword attachment: Resume3.doc




