docno="lists-029-0595976"
received="Sun Sep  7 12:25:15 2003"
isoreceived="20030907162515"
sent="Sun, 7 Sep 2003 06:58:14 -0500"
isosent="20030907115814"
name="Joyce Brown"
email="joycememaw@msn.com"
subject="[world_famous_recipes] VEGETARIAN RECIPES"
id="BAY4-DAV131Cjjv6pRm0003328d@hotmail.com"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To: undisclosed-recipients: ;


Veggie Recipes 
Joyce in Illinois


 Peanut Butter Hummus

Garbanzo Beans (Either Canned Or Cooked)
Reserved Bean Water
Peanut Butter (I Enjoy The Smooth, Grind-Your-Own Style)

The amount of ingredients in this recipe depend on your personal
taste. Adding the garbanzo beans to the peanut butter allows one to
enjoy the flavor without such a high fat content.  In a large bowl
combine the garbanzo beans and peanut butter. Place in a food
processor or blender. Blend ingredients, adding reserved bean water
until preferred consistency is reached.  The blender technique
requires a lot of stirring. I suggest doing this recipe in small
batches if you're using a blender.  Serves: As many as you like.
Preparation time: 10 minutes if you're using a lame blender.

---------



Wonderful Cheese and Apples
Makes one large wheel.

125 g round camembert cheese (including rind), cut up
1 cup shredded Swiss cheese
125 g blue vein cheese, crumbled
3 x 250 g pkts cream cheese
1 and 1/2 Tsp milk
1 and 1/2 Tsp sour light cream
1 and 1/4 cups chopped pecans or walnuts
finely chopped parsley
6 to 8 red skinned apples

Allow camembert, Swiss and blue vein cheeses to stand at room temperature for 30 minutes. In a large bowl, combine the 3 softened cheeses with 2 packets of the cream cheese, beating until smooth.

Line a 23cm (8") quiche pie dish, pie plate, or cake tin with foil or plastic wrap. Stir the milk and sour cream into remaining cream cheese, spread into container.

Sprinkle chopped nuts over cheese layer; press gently into cheese, Spoon camembert mixture over nuts, spreading to edges of container.

Place plastic wrap directly on cheese; then cover tightly. Refrigerate at least 2 to 3 days before serving (flavour is better if kept up to a week).

To serve: Remove the plastic wrap from top of cheese. Turn out onto serving plate; peel off wrapping. Sprinkle with parsley. Surround with unpeeled apple slices.

Note: To prevent browning, dip apple slices into lemon juice. You can prepare this cheese round and freeze it for up to several months.


---------


WHITE GUACAMOLE

1/4 c mayo
3/4 c sour cream
3 TBSP chopped green chilis, drained
1 tomato, chopped, and drained
2 TBSP lemon juice
2 avocados, mashed
garlic to taste
salt and pepper, to taste
Tortilla chips

Blend all ingredients in a bowl, except tortilla chips; mix well.
Cover and chill for 1 hour serve with tortilla chips

----------


White Beer Cheese Dip

6 cups Asadero cheese, shredded 
1 small onion, finely chopped 
1 teaspoon Tabasco sauce or other commercial hot sauce 
2-3 jalapeno peppers, seeded and chopped very fine 
2 tablespoons prepared horseradish 
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped 
1 cup beer 

Combine all ingredients in crock pot and stir. Cook on low until all ingredients are melted together. 

Stir again, and serve hot with warm homemade corn tortilla chips (buy corn tortillas, cut into triangles, deep fry until golden, and salt lightly). 



-----------

VEGETARIAN DINNER

1 c. rice
1 onion
2 cloves garlic
2 tbsp. oil
1 zucchini, chopped (about 1 c.)
1 green pepper
1/2 tsp. oregano
1/4 tsp. salt
1/8 tsp. pepper
2 tomatoes, chopped
16 oz. kidney beans, drained
Shredded cheddar cheese

  Cook rice as per package directions.  Saute chopped
onion and minced garlic in oil.  Add zucchini and green
pepper and seasonings.  Saute until crispy tender. Add
tomatoes and beans and heat through.  Serve over rice,
shredded cheese on top.  Great served with a tossed
green salad.



-------


VEGETARIAN MINESTRONE  


2 teaspoons olive oil
3/4 cup chopped onion
3 cups water
2 cups diced zucchini
1 cup diced carrot
1 cup drained canned cannellini beans or other white beans
3/4 cup diced celery
1/2 teaspoon dried basil
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon dried oregano
1/8 teaspoon coarsely ground pepper
14 1/2 ounces diced tomatoes -- undrained
1 clove garlic -- minced
1/4 cup uncooked ditalini or elbow macaroni

Heat oil in a large saucepan over medium-high heat. Add onion; saute 4
minutes or until lightly browned. Add water and next 10 ingredients
(water through garlic); bring to a boil. Cover, reduce heat to
medium-low, and cook 25 minutes. Add pasta; cover and cook an
additional 10 minutes.


-------

VEGETARIAN CHOPPED LIVER

(A wonderful substitute for the real thing!)

1/4 cup peanut oil
4  large onions, sliced
2  cups canned string beans, drained
1/2 cup canned peas, drained
4  whites of hard-boiled eggs (optional)
1/4  cup walnuts
salt and pepper to taste

In a deep frying pan, heat the peanut oil.  Add the sliced onions and saut&#233; for
At least 1 hour.  Place all the ingredients in a food processor and process until
Smooth.  Do not over process.  Place in refrigerator for several hours.  Serve
With cocktail rye or crackers or place some filling on an endive leaf and garnish
With a strip of red bell pepper.
 

---------


Vegetable Pate



2 teaspoons vegetable oil

2 onions, finely chopped

1-1/2 cups mushrooms, finely chopped

2 cups green beans, chopped steamed

1/2 cup walnuts, chopped

1/4 cup flat-leaf parsley, chopped 

2 teaspoons sage

1/2 teaspoon ground allspice

1/2 teaspoon salt

1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper

6 ounces Pressed Tofu, coarsely shredded



In a medium-sized nonstick skillet, heat the oil. Add the onions; cook, stirring occasionally, until the onions are softened, approximately 5 minutes.  Add the mushrooms; cook, stirring occasionally, until wilted, approximately 5 minutes. Add the beans and walnuts; cook, stirring, until the nuts are toasted, approximately 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer the mixture to a food processor or blender container. Add the parsley, sage, allspice, salt and pepper; pulse until fairly smooth. Transfer the mixture to a medium bowl. Squeeze the tofu to remove any excess moisture; add to the mixture. Mix well. Refrigerate, covered, until chilled, at least 2 hours. Serves: 8.



----------


Vegetable Curry

Cauliflower has the nutritional benefit of being a crucifer, and it's 
dense and chewy, leaving you feeling satisfied with relatively few calories. 

Cooking spray  
1 small onion, cut into small dice  
1  teaspoon  finely chopped fresh garlic  
4  teaspoons  curry powder  
1  head cauliflower, cut into florets (4 cups)  
6  medium carrots, peeled and sliced  
2  medium baking potatoes, peeled and diced  
2 1/2  cups  (20 fl oz/600 ml) canned vegetable broth  
1/4  teaspoon  sea salt  

Spray a large saucepan once with cooking spray and set over low heat. 
Add onions and cook, stirring, for 2 minutes, until translucent. Add garlic 
and curry powder and cook, stirring, for 15 seconds. Add cauliflower, 
carrots, potatoes, broth and salt. Cover and simmer until potatoes are 
soft, about 25 minutes. Makes 4 servings.

Per Serving: Calories 148, Carbohydrates 34g, Fat 0.8g, Fiber 8g, 
Protein 4g, Saturated Fat 0g, Sodium 226mg.



----------


Vegetable Bars



2 cans Pillsbury crescent rolls 

2 {8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened 

1 package Hidden Valley Ranch dressing mix 

1/2 cup mayonnaise 

3/4 cup raw broccoli, finely chopped 

3/4 cup mushrooms, finely chopped 

3/4 cup cucumber, finely chopped

3/4 cup raw carrot, grated 

3/4 cup Cheddar cheese, grated



Unroll the crescent rolls and pat into the bottom of  two cookie sheets. Bake according to the package directions.  In a bowl, combine the cream cheese dressing mix, and mayonnaise. Mix well. Spread l/2 of the mixture on each cooled crust. Gently toss the vegetables on top of each crust. Sprinkle cheese. Refrigerate until ready to serve. Cut each crust into 24 bars.



-------


V8? Fiesta Rice

1 tbsp. vegetable oil

1 large onion -- chopped

1 small green pepper -- chopped

1/4 tsp. garlic powder or 2 cloves garlic -- minced

1/8 tsp. pepper

1 cup uncooked regular long-grain white rice

3 1/2 cups V8? Vegetable Juice*

HEAT oil in skillet. Add onion, green pepper, garlic and pepper
and cook until tender-crisp.

ADD rice and cook 30 seconds, stirring. Stir in vegetable juice.
Heat to a boil. Cover and cook over low heat 20 min. or until
rice is done. Let stand 5 min. Serves 6.

----------


TVP EXTRAORDINAIRE!
Desire wrote the following excellent information on TVP (textured 
vegetable protein):

For TVP mince you can use recipes calling for ground beef.   If using 
it for rissoles, add mashed potato to the mixture to get it to 
blend.   Dehydrated mash is great.
For TVP chunks you can use any recipes for stews, casseroles etc. 
including crockpot recipes - as it holds its shape regardless of 
length of cooking.

If using plain, unflavoured TVP, the secret is in the soaking.   
Whatever flavouring you are going to use i.e. curry, chili etc. 
should be made into a liquid and the TVP should be soaked in this 
liquid - it will then absorb the flavour required.   You can use soup 
powder, stock cubes etc.

TVP mince can be soaked in warm liquid for 20-30 minutes before 
cooking. TVP chunks should be soaked in cold liquid for at least 4 
hours to get the chunks soft all the way through.

-----------------
Recipes Using TVP
(Thanks to Kendy!)
-----------------

linguine-red-bell-pepper-tvp 
-------------------------
This comes from "366 Healthful Ways to Cook Tofu and 
Other Meatless Alternatives", by Robin Robertson. (modified) 
1 latge onion, thinly sliced 
2 lbs red bell peppers, cut into 1/2 in strips 
2 TBL chopped fresh basil, or 1 1/2 tsp dried 
1/2 tsp salt 
1/4 tsp freshly ground pepper 
1 1/2 c vegetable stock 
1 c. TVP combined with 1 c. boiling water 
     (let sit about 20 minutes) 
1 lb linguine 
2 TBL minced fresh parsley (optional) 
In a large skillet, cook onions and peppers in water or broth over
moderate heat, stirring frequently, until the onion slices turn
translucent, about 10 minutes. Add basil, salt, and pepper and cook 
for another 5 minutes or so, until the peppers are tender. Add 1 cup 
of the stock to the skillet and cook for 5 minutes longer. Pour the 
pepper sauce into a food processor or blender, and puree until it is 
the consistency of a thick tomato sauce. Transfer sauce to a 
saucepan, add the TVP, and cook over medium heat until heated 
through, 2 to 3 minutes. If the sauce is too thick, thin it with the 
remaining broth until it is the desired consistency. 
In the meantime, cook the pasta in a large pot until tender but still
firm (follow package directions). Drain well, and toss the pasta with
the hot sauce in a serving bowl. If desired, garnish with parmesan
cheese and parsley. 
Makes 4 to 6 servings

-Chili- 
1 onion 
1/2 bell pepper 
1 jalapeno pepper 
1-2 chili peppers 
1 clove garlic 
1 can kidney beans 
1 can pinto or black beans 
3 to 4 8-ounce cans tomato sauce 
1 can diced tomatos 
fresh or frozen corn 
2 cups TVP 
chili powder and hot sauce to taste 
Chop the onion, peppers, garlic and simmer in a pan till onions 
are translucent. Add this to the tomato sauce, diced tomatos, and 
tvp in a large pot. If you use canned beans, drain them in a 
colander first and then add to the pot. Bring to a bowl, reduce 
heat and let simmer for 15-20 minutes. Serve over crackers or
rice, or with tortilla chips or as a burrito or whatever you want
to do. 

-TVP Bean Burgers- 
1 cup TVP granules (soy protein product) 
1 scant cup boiling water 
1 tbsp tomato paste 
19 oz can pinto beans, drained and rinsed 
Red kidney beans can be substituted 
1/4 cup whole wheat bread crumbs 
2 cloves garlic, finely minced 
1 tsp oregano 
2 tbsp tahini paste 
1 tbsp soy sauce 
1 tsp sugar 
salt and pepper to taste 
whole wheat flour for dusting 
Pour boiling water over TVP and tomato paste in a bowl. Stir and 
let rest for 10 minutes. In food processor, combine TVP mixture 
and remaining ingredients except for flour. Pulse until mixture 
is almost a puree. Dust hands with flour and shape mixture into 
6 burgers. Dust them lightly in flour. Layer the burgers with 
sheets of waxed paper and refrigerate for a least one hour. Cook 
on a grill covered with foil for about 10 minutes on each side or 
fry in pan at medium high for about 5 minutes each side.








[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]



------------------------ Yahoo! Groups Sponsor ---------------------~-->
Buy Ink Cartridges or Refill Kits for Your HP, Epson, Canon or Lexmark
Printer at Myinks.com. Free s/h on orders $50 or more to the US & Canada. http://www.c1tracking.com/l.asp?cid=5511
http://us.click.yahoo.com/l.m7sD/LIdGAA/qnsNAA/f8NolB/TM
---------------------------------------------------------------------~->

Top Recipes Sites - Add your site.
http://www.topsitelists.com/topsites.cgi?ID=65&user=recipes&area=world

World Famous Recipes
http://www.worldfamousrecipes.com/

Famous Quotes and Jokes
http://www.quotesandjokes.com/

If you got this from someone else you can join by sending e-mail to world_famous_recipes-subscribe@yahoogroups.com


To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
world_famous_recipes-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

 

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/ 



