docno="lists-046-14257535"
received="Wed Aug  2 10:17:59 2000"
isoreceived="20000802141759"
sent="Wed, 02 Aug 2000 07:17:39 -0700"
isosent="20000802141739"
name="Janet Daly"
email="janet@w3.org"
subject="News Release: World Wide Web Consortium Issues Scalable Vector Graphics   as a Candidate Recommendation"
id="39882D83.E17D05D9@w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:janet@w3.org,newsroom@bizwire.com,w3c-news@w3.org
CC:w3t-pr@w3.org


World Wide Web Consortium Issues Scalable Vector Graphics as a Candidate
Recommendation

Implementation testing the key to Interoperability

Contact America -- 
     Janet Daly, <janet@w3.org>, +1.617.253.5884 or +1.617.253.2613 
Contact Europe -- 
     Carine Rigaud <cariner@fgcom.fr>, +33.1.41.18.85.55
     Christelle Moraga <christellem@fgcom.fr>, +33.1.41.18.85.55 
Contact Asia -- 
     Kazuhiro Kitagawa <kaz@w3.org>, +81.466.49.1170 

Web resources:

Press release:
http://www.w3.org/2000/08/svg-pressrelease.html

Press release in Japanese:
http://www.w3.org/2000/08/svg-pressrelease.html.ja

Testimonials:
http://www.w3.org/2000/08/svg-testimonial.html

Scalable Vector Graphics Candidate Recommendation:
http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/CR-SVG-20000802/


http://www.w3.org/ -- 2 August 2000 -- The World Wide Web Consortium 
(W3C) has issued Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) as a W3C Candidate 
Recommendation. Advancement of the document to Candidate Recommendation 
is an invitation to the Web development community at large to make 
implementations of SVG and provide technical feedback.

Web Designers Need Scalable Vector Graphics

Web designers have requirements for graphics formats which display 
well on a range of different devices, screen sizes, and printer 
resolutions. They need rich graphical capabilities, good 
internationalization, responsive animation and interactive behavior 
in a way that takes advantage of the growing XML infrastructure
used in e-commerce, publishing, and business to business communication.

"Designers are reaching larger audiences with an increasing variety 
of Web-enabled devices. They need graphics which can be restyled for 
different purposes," explained Chris Lilley, W3C Graphics Activity Lead. 
"But most of all, they need to be able to handle their graphics the 
same way as their text and business data, which nowadays are in XML. 
SVG is specifically designed to let them do that."

XML Brings Searchability, Dynamism, and Extensibility

Web designers demand vendor-neutral, cross-platform interoperability. 
W3C's Extensible Markup Language (XML) has become the universal format 
for document and data interchange on the Web. SVG brings the advantages 
of XML to the world of vector graphics. It enables the textual content 
of graphics - from logos to diagrams - to be searched, indexed, and 
displayed in multiple languages. This is a significant benefit for both
accessibility and internationalization. 

Related W3C specifications such as the Document Object Model (DOM) 
allow for easy server-side generation and dynamic, client-side 
modification of graphics and text. SVG also benefits from W3C 
technologies such as CSS and XSL style sheets, RDF metadata, 
SMIL Animation and XML Linking.

In addition to being an excellent format for stand-alone graphics, 
the full power of SVG is seen when it is combined with other XML 
grammars; for example to deliver multimedia applications, 
hold business data, or render mathematical expressions.

Bringing the XML advantage to vector graphics benefits all industries 
which depend on rich graphics delivery - advertising, electronic 
commerce, process control, mapping, financial services, and education 
all have immediate needs for SVG.

W3C Ensures Stability of Developing Technologies, Builds Test Suites

Candidate Recommendation state is an explicit call for implementations 
to the developer community at large, to use a maturing specification 
and build applications based on it. There are already many open source 
and commercial SVG implementations available. W3C is ensuring that 
the  whole of the SVG specification can be implemented, thus ensuring 
cross-vendor, cross-platform interoperability.

W3C is extending its first SVG Test Suite, and updating it to match 
the Candidate Recommendation of SVG. "We are providing developers with 
the critical tools they need to check their implementations against 
the spec," explained Lofton Henderson, editor of the SVG Test Suite. 
"Test Suites enable developers to make conformant and interoperable 
applications, which can then be used with confidence by designers." 

SVG Enjoys Industry Support, Implementations Available Now

The SVG Working Group consists of key industry and research players 
including, in alphabetical order: Adobe Systems, AOL/Netscape, Apple, 
Autodesk, Canon, Corel, CSIRO, Eastman Kodak, Excosoft, Hewlett-Packard, 
IBM, ILOG, IntraNet Systems, Macromedia, Microsoft, OASIS, Opera, 
Oxford Brookes University, Quark, Sun Microsystems, and Xerox.

Increasing numbers of drawing tools export to SVG, and SVG can now be 
viewed on many platforms. Forward-looking designers, who already 
understand the benefits of vector graphics, are now gaining experience 
with SVG and XML integration. 

SVG will remain in Candidate Recommendation while the working 
group evaluates implementations for support of each SVG feature, 
and integrates public feedback.

About the World Wide Web Consortium [W3C]

The W3C was created to lead the Web to its full potential by 
developing common protocols that promote its evolution and ensure 
its interoperability. It is an international industry consortium 
jointly run by the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science (MIT LCS) 
in the USA, the National Institute for Research in Computer Science 
and Control (INRIA) in France and Keio University in Japan. 
Services provided by the Consortium include: a repository of 
information about the World Wide Web for developers and users, 
reference code implementations to embody and promote standards, 
and various prototype and sample applications to demonstrate use 
of new technology. To date, over 440 organizations are Members of 
the Consortium. For more information see http://www.w3.org/


Testimonials for Scalable Vector Graphics Candidate Recommendation

Adobe Systems | Apple | BitFlash Inc. | Canon | Corel Corporation  
CSIRO | Eastman Kodak Company | IBM | ILOG | IntraNet Solutions  
Jasc Software Incorporated | Lexica LLC | Macromedia | OASIS 
Oxford Brookes University | Sun Microsystems |


Adobe is extremely pleased that the SVG specification 
has been approved as a W3C Candidate Recommendation - 
bringing it an important step closer to Final 
Recommendation. Because it's built on open standards like 
XML, SVG will enable designers and programmers to more easily 
build extensible, dynamic and interactive Web sites. Adobe 
is committed to helping facilitate SVG's broad adoption. 
To that end, we will continue to freely distribute the 
Adobe SVG Viewer and integrate SVG capabilities across our 
product line - a process that's already begun with the 
addition of SVG authoring capability to Illustrator 9.0.
          -- Ron Okamoto 
     Senior Director of Product Marketing 
     Graphics and Dynamic Media
     Adobe Systems Incorporated

        Apple is committed to building the best products for 
the creative market, and was a key contributor in developing 
SVG, the new standard for authoring next generation graphics
        on the web. SVG's support for transparency, ICC profiles and 
ColorSync will be a natural fit with Quartz, our killer 
graphics technology in Mac OS X.
          -- Philip Schiller 
     Apple's vice president of Worldwide Product Marketing

        BitFlash Inc. is proud to be an active member of the W3C 
SVG Working Group. SVG is an integral part of BitFlash's 
Wireless Graphics Server, powered by the company's ReflexisTM 
Graphics Engine. We are confident that SVG will have a 
significant market impact, enabling BitFlash to achieve its 
goal of bringing rich, desktop-level content to wireless 
devices and all Internet platforms.
          -- Frederic Charpentier 
     President & Chief Technology Officer 
     BitFlash Inc.

        The Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) standards proposal from 
the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) holds the key to unifying 
the imaging model and semantic structure for printing and 
Internet display. Canon welcomes SVG becoming Candidate
Recommendation and expects it to play an important role as a 
document format used in the circulation of documents in the 
Internet era.
          -- Satoshi Nagata 
     Senior General Manager 
     Digital Office Development Center
             Canon Inc.

          Corel applauds the work of the World Wide Web Consortium 
  on completing the Scalable Vector Graphics specifications. 
  In the 21st century, the computing world will depend on
          tools that are based upon open standards, are easy to use 
  and work across multiple platforms. We are committed to 
  embracing SVG throughout our graphics applications,
          including the upcoming CorelDRAW 10 Graphics Suite, and 
  leveraging this emerging technology for Web graphics.
          -- Derek J. Burney 
     Executive Vice-President 
     Engineering and Chief Technology Officer 
     Corel Corporation

         CSIRO is pleased to have played an important role in the 
 development of Scalable Vector Graphics. SVG opens up new 
 possibilities for delivering map-based information over the 
 Internet. Our experience in geo-spatial applications has 
 allowed us to use this newly emerging standard to provide 
 innovative solutions for Web Mapping. In fact, we're already 
 using the SVG standard to deliver integrated property and 
 planning information for local government authorities 
 over the Internet.
          -- David Abel 
     Science and Industry Manager 
     CSIRO Mathematical and Information Sciences, Australia

        We are very pleased to see that the first release of the 
SVG specification has reached this significant milestone of 
Candidate Recommendation. Using SVG, IBM's customers will be 
able to bring higher-quality graphics to their Web pages, 
their e-business applications, and the ever-increasing number 
of Web-enabled mobile devices. The SVG Candidate Recommendation 
is an important step toward establishing a true vector graphics 
encoding standard, which IBM supports as a necessity for 
cross-industry interoperability.
          -- Rod Smith 
     Vice President of Emerging Technologies
     IBM

ILOG has been involved in definition of SVG since the beginning, 
and in fact, has one of the first products to support the 
standard, ILOG JViews 3.0 graphical user interface. With our 
customers moving applications to the web, SVG will allow for 
easy interoperability among many different graphics programs. 
We see this flexibility and interactivity as an extension of 
our product strengths in those areas, features that have made 
ILOG GUIs successful in telecom network management, supervision 
and workflow applications.
          -- Patrick Albert, Chief Technology Officer, ILOG

        As a leader in Web content management solutions and 
information access technologies, IntraNet Solutions 
enthusiastically embraces the SVG Candidate Recommendation.
Through SVG, our Web content management customers will be able 
to display diagrams and schematics from a single source document 
on diverse devices at various resolutions without any degradation 
of quality. For application developers using our XML-based 
technologies to access information locked in business documents, 
the conversion of business graphics to SVG gives them a single 
industry-standard interface for searching, manipulating and 
publishing a wide variety of vector formats. As a robust, 
integrated standard, SVG provides the industry with a powerful 
tool for breaking down barriers to information access. 
          -- Scott D. Norder, 
     President, Information Exchange Division 
     IntraNet Solutions, Inc

        Scalable Vector Graphics will play an important role in 
transforming the Web into a truly interactive and visually 
appealing environment. Jasc Software is pleased to support the
World Wide Web Consortium's efforts in creating a vector 
graphics standard that will be open to all vendors and end-users. 
Through the use of new and innovative programs such as Jasc 
Trajectory Pro, Web designers of all levels will be able to 
fully experience the many benefits and accessibility of SVG.
          -- Kris Tufto, CEO 
     Jasc Software Incorporated

        Kodak welcomes the advancement of SVG as an important element 
to enabling both graphical and image-intensive creative 
web-based applications. Such applications are fundamental to 
delivering new products and services through our Print@Kodak 
Internet photofinishing service. SVG will speed the development 
and expand the use of KODAK applications. 
          -- Stephen Shaffer, CTO, Internet Fulfillment 
     Eastman Kodak Company

Lexica LLC is a member of the W3C's working group on vector 
graphics, SVG, and is excited about the potential for advanced 
graphical and textual content on the web. The Java 2 platform's 
2D API, containing a set of graphics, text and imaging features, 
maps well to the SVG specification. Lexica is very pleased to 
incorporate SVG into its other Java-based and XML software, 
which addresses the insurance vertical market. The ability to 
natively incorporate two kinds of metadata directly into SVG 
structures permits knowledge-amplified graphical and textual 
processing on the Web.
          -- David Dodds, Senior XML Analyst and SVG working group
     member, Lexica LLC 

Macromedia is pleased that the SVG specification has reached 
Candidate Recommendation. Through the tremendous adoption of 
Macromedia Flash, we have seen vector graphics become an 
increasingly important component of the web experience, and 
SVG will introduce a rich interchange format that can be 
implemented across tools and technologies.
          -- Peter Santangeli, Macromedia

        Netscape is pleased to see SVG has progressed to Candidate 
Recommendation. We believe the web user's experience will be 
greatly enhanced by a vector graphics standard designed 
specifically for the Web. Many of the raster images on the Web 
could be replaced with vector graphics that offer compact 
downloads, device independent resolution, and retention of 
textual data for searching and indexing. Netscape is working
        to enable ubiquitous SVG support in browsers and applications 
through our open-source development initiative.
          -- Jim Hamerly, Vice President of Client Product Development 
     Netscape Communications Corporation

        OASIS is proud to have contributed to the development of SVG. 
We believe it will be an important addition to the family of 
XML standards--one that will benefit all OASIS members, users 
and vendors alike. As an organization dedicated to XML 
interoperability, OASIS looks forward to opportunities to 
continue our work with SVG, much as we did with WebCGM after 
it became a W3C Recommendation.
          -- Laura Walker, Executive Director, OASIS

We are delighted to see SVG progress to Candidate Recommendation. 
This is an important step along the road to making the Web more 
"graphics friendly". 
          -- David Duce, School of Computing and Mathematical Sciences 
     Oxford Brookes University

        Sun is a strong proponent of SVG. SVG is a powerful enabling 
technology for the Web and especially promising when combined 
with the Java (TM) 2 platform to develop dynamic, interactive 
Web applications. Also, its open, standards-based nature is 
complementary to Sun's own computing vision, which relies 
upon open standards and non-proprietary interfaces. The goal 
of SVG is to provide an open, standards-based alternative to 
proprietary formats for scalable vector graphics. With SVG, 
users will finally have a single, standard format with which 
to work and a simple solution for delivering high quality 
graphics to all web environments.
          -- Bill Smith, Manager, XML Technology Center, 
     Sun Microsystems, and President, Board of Directors, 
     OASIS



