docno="lists-033-5845129"
received="Wed Sep  4 13:24:24 2002"
isoreceived="20020904172424"
sent="Wed, 4 Sep 2002 09:32:40 -0800"
isosent="20020904173240"
name="kunle"
email="kunle_adams100@gotmail.com"
subject="Biz Investment Opportunity"
id="200209040932.g849WkX33058@ns2.onlyonline.com"
expires="-1"


To:kunle_adams100@gotmail.com


From: Mr. Kunle Adams

Attn: The President/Ceo

                        Urgent Business Proposal.


It is my warmest pleasure soliciting your confidence in this transaction, 
which I propose to you as a person of transparency. This by virtue of its 
nature as being utterly confidential and top secret though I know that a 
transaction of this magnitude will make anyone apprehensive and worry but I 
assure you that all will be well at the end of the day. Let me first start by 
introducing myself properly to you. I am MR.KUNLE ADAMS. one of the director 
of Access Bank Nigeria plc. I came to know of you in my private search for a 
reliable and reputable person to handle this transaction, which involves the 
transfer of huge sum of money to a foreign account requiring maximum 
confidence. 

THE PROPOSITION:
Late Engineer Michael Creek, an oil merchant/ foreign contractor with the 
federal government of Nigeria, until his death a year a ago in a ghastly 
plane crash, banked with us here at Access Bank Nig. Plc Lagos. And had a 
closing balance of US$15.5M (Fifteen Million Five Hundred Thousand U.S 
Dollars) as at the end of December 2001. The banks now expect the next of kin 
to claim the money as the beneficiary. However, effort being made by the bank 
to get in touch with any of creek's relative of family proved abortive. The 
perceived possibility of getting any of late Eng.Michael Creek's next of kin 
had been difficult because he had no wife nor children that is known to us. 
The management under the influence of our chairman who is presently a member 
of the senate and other members of the board of directors of the Access Bank 
Nigeria Plc has resolved to declare the fund unclaimable and subsequently be 
donated to the trust fund for arms and ammunitions to further enhance the 
course of war in various African countries, what an evil alternative. In 
other to avert this negative development, my colleagues and I now seek your 
permission to have you stand as a next of kin to late engr Michael creek, so 
that the fund US$15.5m will be released and paid into you account as the 
beneficiary. All documents and proofs to enable you receive this fund in your 
account will be provided by my colleagues and me. We have also secured from 
the probate an order of mandate to locate any of the next of kin, that is a 
100% risk free involvement, please note the account need not have money in it,
 all we needed is an account in which the fund will be released into. We have 
agreed to share the fund accordingly after it has been transferred. 20% of 
the money will go to you for acting as the beneficiary of this money, 75% for 
my colleagues and me as the architect of the transaction. 5% will be set 
aside for reimbursement to both parties for any incidental expenses that may 
be incurred in the course of this transaction. If this proposal is accepted 
by you, do take advantage of the trust you have best owned on you and kindly 
get in touch with me immediately via my email address. Please furnish me with 
your most confidential:
1.Your Private Phone and Fax Number
2.Your Bank Account Number
3.Your Bank Name And Address
4.Your Personal Name And Address
So that I can use this information's to apply for the release and subsequent 
transfer of the fund into your nominated account. But incase you are not 
interested, please let me know as soon as possible so that I can make an 
alternative arrangement because time is not on our side, thank you in advance 
for your anticipated co-operation.

Yours faithfully,

MR.KUNLE ADAMS.


 



