docno="lists-039-12841233"
received="Wed Dec 22 07:00:02 1999"
isoreceived="19991222120002"
sent="Wed, 22 Dec 1999 06:59:59 -0500"
isosent="19991222115959"
name="Internet-Drafts@ietf.org"
email="Internet-Drafts@ietf.org"
subject="I-D ACTION:draft-ietf-webdav-redirectref-protocol-02.txt"
id="199912221159.GAA06159@ietf.org"
expires="-1"


To: IETF-Announce: ;
Cc:w3c-dist-auth@w3.org

A New Internet-Draft is available from the on-line Internet-Drafts directories.
This draft is a work item of the WWW Distributed Authoring and Versioning Working Group of the IETF.

Title: WebDAV Redirect Reference Resources
Author(s): J. Slein, E. Whitehead,  J. Davis, G. Clemm, 
                          C. Fay,  J. Crawford 
 Filename: draft-ietf-webdav-redirectref-protocol-02.txt
Pages: 26
Date: 21-Dec-99

This is one of a pair of specifications that extend the WebDAV 
Distributed Authoring Protocol to enable clients to create new access 
paths to existing resources.  The two protocol extensions have very 
different characteristics that make them useful for different sorts of 
applications.
 
The present specification defines redirect reference resources.  A 
redirect reference resource is a resource whose default response is an 
HTTP/1.1 302 (Found) status code, redirecting the client to a different 
resource, the target resource.  A redirect reference makes it possible 
to access the target resource indirectly, through any URI mapped to the 
redirect reference resource.  There are no integrity guarantees 
associated with redirect reference resources.

The related specification, RFC xxxx, defines bindings, and the BIND 
method for creating them.  Creating a new binding to a resource 
indirectly creates one or more new URIs mapped to that resource, which 
can then be used to access it.  Servers are required to insure the 
integrity of any bindings that they allow to be created.

A URL for this Internet-Draft is:
http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-webdav-redirectref-protocol-02.txt

Internet-Drafts are also available by anonymous FTP. Login with the username
"anonymous" and a password of your e-mail address. After logging in,
type "cd internet-drafts" and then
"get draft-ietf-webdav-redirectref-protocol-02.txt".

A list of Internet-Drafts directories can be found in
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html 
or ftp://ftp.ietf.org/ietf/1shadow-sites.txt


Internet-Drafts can also be obtained by e-mail.

Send a message to:
mailserv@ietf.org.
In the body type:
"FILE /internet-drafts/draft-ietf-webdav-redirectref-protocol-02.txt".

NOTE:The mail server at ietf.org can return the document in
MIME-encoded form by using the "mpack" utility.  To use this
feature, insert the command "ENCODING mime" before the "FILE"
command.  To decode the response(s), you will need "munpack" or
a MIME-compliant mail reader.  Different MIME-compliant mail readers
exhibit different behavior, especially when dealing with
"multipart" MIME messages (i.e. documents which have been split
up into multiple messages), so check your local documentation on
how to manipulate these messages.


Below is the data which will enable a MIME compliant mail reader
implementation to automatically retrieve the ASCII version of the
Internet-Draft.






Message/External-body attachment: stored




