docno="lists-039-12898241"
received="Mon Dec 27 19:59:06 1999"
isoreceived="19991228005906"
sent="Mon, 27 Dec 1999 16:56:04 -0800"
isosent="19991228005604"
name="Jim Whitehead"
email="ejw@ics.uci.edu"
subject="WG Last Call: Bindings Protocol"
id="NDBBIKLAGLCOPGKGADOJMECICLAA.ejw@ics.uci.edu"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To: WebDAV WG<w3c-dist-auth@w3.org>



*** WORKING GROUP LAST CALL FOR COMMENTS ***

WEBDAV BINDINGS PROTOCOL SPECIFICATION

<draft-ietf-webdav-binding-protocol-02>
http://www.ics.uci.edu/pub/ietf/webdav/collection/draft-ietf-webdav-binding-
protocol-02

This is the final call for comments from the working group on the WebDAV
Bindings Protocol specification, draft-ietf-webdav-binding-protocol-02.
This last call period begins immediately, and ends January 24, 2000, at
midnight, US Pacific time.  This allows 4 weeks for review of this
specification.

At the end of the last call period, a new draft will be issued that resolves
comments raised during the last call period.  Depending on the scope of
changes, there will follow either an immediate call for rough consensus
(very few changes), or a second last call period (significant changes). Once
the document represents the rough consensus of the working group, I will
submit this document to the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG) for
their approval. IESG review involves a (minimum) two week public last call
for comments review period. This IESG-initiated last call period is in
addition to the working group last call period.

This document is intended to be a "Proposed Standard".  Quoting from RFC
2026, "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3":

   The entry-level maturity for the standards track is "Proposed
   Standard".  A specific action by the IESG is required to move a
   specification onto the standards track at the "Proposed Standard"
   level.

   A Proposed Standard specification is generally stable, has resolved
   known design choices, is believed to be well-understood, has received
   significant community review, and appears to enjoy enough community
   interest to be considered valuable.  However, further experience
   might result in a change or even retraction of the specification
   before it advances.

   Usually, neither implementation nor operational experience is
   required for the designation of a specification as a Proposed
   Standard.  However, such experience is highly desirable, and will
   usually represent a strong argument in favor of a Proposed Standard
   designation.

Many details on the procedures used to develop an IETF standard can be
found in RFC 2026, available at:

ftp://ftp.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2026.txt

If there are any procedural questions or concerns, please do not hesitate
to contact me, or raise an issue on the list.

Notes:

1) This specification is one of three that have been developed in tandem,
the
other two being the Redirect References Protocol,
draft-ietf-webdav-redirectref-protocol-02
and the Ordered Collections Protocol,
draft-ietf-webdav-ordering-protocol-02.
It is my intention to bring these documents up for last call in sequence,
with the Redirect References Protocol going next, starting its last call on
January 25, 2000.  While the documents are being brought up for last call in
sequence, you may, if you wish, review all three at once, and submit
comments on all three during the last call period for the Bindings Protocol
Specification.

2) If you've been waiting for a "stable" version of the specification
before performing a review, wait no longer.  This is it.  Review the
specification NOW.


- Jim Whitehead
Chair, IETF WEBDAV Working Group



