docno="lists-030-16357906"
received="Sun Nov 18 09:23:25 2001"
isoreceived="20011118142325"
sent="Sun, 18 Nov 2001 16:34:30 -0000"
isosent="20011118163430"
name="Viva Love Linking"
email="promo@vivalove.com"
subject="Linking Your Site"
id="200111181423.fAIENJK13399@sophia.inria.fr"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"


To:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org

Hello,

I'm the president of Cordoba International and I'd like to invite you to investigate and join our new Viva Love Foreign Women Online Dating Site affiliate program. If you're currently promoting Online Dating Sites, we've designed a new program that will blow away the "pennies on the dollar" that you're making now with other sites. To learn more, click over NOW to:  

           http://www.vivalove.com/affiliate/

We've created a USA-based high quality Russian Woman Introductions site that allows guys to send unlimited e-mail directly women on our site. Customers see a HUGE benefit because we take great pains to insure that the ladies on our site are not scammers or have their photos posted by unscrupulous agencies. Customers see this as a HUGE difference between our site and Kiss.com, Match.com and other sites which they usually try for a month and then leave. 

You will see much, much higher conversion rates and much better revenue than you're currently seeing from these other sites, if you're succesfully promoting foreign introduction or dating sites now. We know, because we've promoted these sites for years.

This site works incredibily and it seems that our customers appreciate this because they are signing up with an incredible conversion rate, usually joining on the first visit to the site. Further, over half our new members join with a 2 or 3 month membership instead of a 1 month membership.

The creators of Viva Love have promoted many other dating sites and worked with so many affilaite programs that we've decided to create the "Ultimate" affilite program for our affilaites. We have a sample stats page and we really think you'll be impressed. We also operate several dating site directories and are VERY familiar with dating site affilaite programs ;-)

As a kind of "bonus" for just checking out our program, we've added a link called "About Affiliate Programs". Here we tell you facts that companies doing affilaite programs certainly wouldn't like you to find out. The realities of Affiliate programs are there for you to read.

It takes only a few minutes to add banners, buttons, popup windows and links and we're confident that you'll see an incredible difference in how much MORE you make with our program vs. any other Foreign Woman Introduction Service.


Thank-you,



Elmar Brunenieks, President
Cordoba/VivaLove Affiliate Program
http://www.vivalove.com/affiliate/



