docno="lists-083-12579858"
received="Tue May  2 11:19:49 2000"
isoreceived="20000502151949"
sent="Tue, 2 May 2000 11:21:49 -0400"
isosent="20000502152149"
name="Denis Anson"
email="danson@miseri.edu"
subject="Techniques for 7 &amp; 8"
id="GEEALOAPINMEBKLJPLPJIEHICFAA.danson@miseri.edu"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:"WAI UA Group"<w3c-wai-ua@w3.org>



Below are my comments on the techniques document for Guidelines 7 & 8.

Denis

Comments on Techniques for sections 7 and 8

7.1 ? In the technique it talks about the user agent providing additional
means of moving between frames.  We should reference the concept here of
first using W3C recommendations, then system standards, and only then
developing new methods.

7.2 ? The feature to pause audio or other multimedia when shifting between
viewports should be user configurable.  It is conceivable that material in
multiple viewports is designed to run in parallel, and auto-pause would
prevent this.

7.3 ? there is a missing link to #info-form-submit.
?Thus, for most left-to-right languages, the usual navigation order is
top-to-bottom and left-to-right. Thus, for right-to-left languages, the
order would be top-to-bottom and right-to-left.?  - Two sentences in a row
beginning with ?Thus,?

?In Java, a component is part of the sequential navigation order when added
to a panel and its isFocusTraversable() method returns true. A component can
be removed from the navigation order by extending the component, overloading
this method, and returning false.? ? This isn?t in the form of a functional
outcome, it?s more a statement of fact.  Would this be taken as a technique
by a Java programmer?

Perhaps I?m being dense, but is the difference between 7.3 and 7.4 just the
addition of the word ?Only?? Would this mean that you wouldn?t be able to
navigate any of the content?  Would this require a ?links only? view be
provided?

7.5 ? ?Allow users to search on labels as well as content of some controls.?
Might this be better as ?Where applicable, allow users to search on labels
as well as content of controls.?

7.6 ? ?Allow navigation based on commonly understood document models, even
if they do not adhere strictly to a Document Type Definition (DTD).
navigation. For instance, in HTML, although headers (H1-H6) are not
containers, they may? ? The word ?navigation.? Appears to be a floater from
a prior edit.

?Allow depth-first as well as breadth-first navigation.? I?m not sure what
this means.  Would the typical reader know?

8.1 ? ?Allow the user to navigate to a table cell and query the cell for
metadata (e.g., by activating a menu or key stroke).? As written in
isolation, this would suggest that you either use a keystroke or menu.  We
want both, in accordance with the requirement to provide keyboard access to
all functionality. Perhaps ?(e.g., by activating a menu/key stroke).?

?The following image shows how Internet Explorer [IE] provides cell header
information through the context ("right-click") menu:? ? To be in
compliance, this technique would have to also have a keyboard equivalent.

8.4 ? The OPERA example given here doesn?t really apply.  This technique
talks about querying a link for the information, and the Opera screen shows
how to configure the display of a link in general, but not how to obtain
information from a specific link.

8.5 ? Color should not be used as the only way to highlight the current
viewport, as in the first bullet point.

8.7 ? It seems like a note would be appropriate here that links are not the
only active elements.  You should also be able to find elements with scripts
attached.  (Does the CSS2 property allow this?)



