docno="lists-028-6080999"
received="Mon Jul 16 22:36:53 2001"
isoreceived="20010717023653"
sent="Mon, 16 Jul 2001 20:47:03 -0400"
isosent="20010717004703"
name="Mark E. Wright"
email="mark@wrightsites.com"
subject="Site Comment"
id="NDBBJOJPALEAADHBLFMGAEMCCHAA.mark@wrightsites.com"
charset="Windows-1252"
expires="-1"

To:<ij@w3.org>


Hello,

Please forgive me if I sound rude or unthankful.  I do very much appreciate
the work of the W3C.

I have been designing websites for well over two years now.  I learned how
to code on my own, by viewing sources from other sites and by using
tutorials.  I have visited your site before, but it has always been of
little assistance to me.  My last visit was over a year ago and I'll explain
in a minute why I haven't been back.  I feel that my opinion should be heard
even if W3C disagrees and nothing changes.  Below, please find my comments
about the W3C website.

This site is one of the most difficult to navigate that I have ever
encountered.  I code in many other languages including PHP/MySQL and C++.
Whenever I'm not sure about the proper use of something in PHP or MySQL, I
simply go to the proper website and I can very easily find the manuals which
have a search feature to take me right to what I need.  Someone recently
told me about a tag in HTML that I had never heard of, so I came to the site
to look for it.  It took forever for me to even find any information
remotely related to what I was looking for!

I read somewhere on this site that WYSIWYG editors are bad and why.  I agree
and always have thought that they were not good.  But after trying to find
one simple tag on your site, I can see why people would use those!  You guys
certainly don't make it easy to find anything.  Is there no way that the
site could be better organized to allow easier access to things (especially
the manuals)?

The code for my sites is not perfect.  It functions fine, but your validator
often screams about my pages.  I'm not meaning to attack you or the
organization, but I'm just a guy who wants to do things the right way.  And
right now, I just don't have the time to search your site for hours at a
time looking for a simple tag guideline!

If you've made it this far in my letter, thanks for listening to me blabber.
No response is really necessary, I just wanted to put my vote in for
redesigning the site in a more accessible fashion.  That's just my opinion
though.  Thanks again.  Have a good day!


Sincerely,
Mark Wright
Wrightsites.com - Get the Most from your host!
Wright Web Design - Go Global, Go Web!
DomainXpress - Coming Soon

(440) 725-9631



