docno="lists-031-16638619"
received="Sat Jul 20 19:12:24 2002"
isoreceived="20020720231224"
sent="Sun, 21 Jul 2002 00:12:36 -0700"
isosent="20020721071236"
name="AUSTEN OBIGWE"
email="austen_obigwe2@weedmail.com"
subject="Kindly Assist"
id="200207202312.TAA08390@tux.w3.org"
charset="windows-1252"
expires="-1"


To:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org

Dear,

 I write to request for your assistance to transfer the sum of US$22 Million from our bank, BroadBank of Nigeria Limited. I am Mr. Austen I. N. Obigwe, the District Bank Manager of Broadbank of Nigeria limited. There is an account opened in this bank in 1990 and since 1995 nobody has operated on this account again. After going through some old files in the records I discovered that if I do not remit this money out urgently it would be forfeited to the bank. The owner of this account is Mr. George Williams, a foreigner, an engineer by profession (contractor) died since 1994. No other person knows about this account or any thing concerning it, the account has no other beneficiary and my investigation proved to me as well that his company does not exist anymore here having closed down due to his death and the amount involved is Twenty Two Million US Dollars (US$22,000,000.00). I want to transfer this money into a safe foreigners account!
 abroad but I don't know any foreigner, I am only contacting you as a foreigner because this money can not be approved to a local bank here, but can only be approved to any foreign account because the money is in us dollars and the former owner of the account, Mr. George Williams is a foreigner too. You will be presented as the NEXT OF KIN to Mr. George Williams Account. I know that this message will come to you as a surprise and in disbelief as we don't know our selves before, but be sure that it is REAL and a GENUINE transfer. I only got your contact address from the computer (internet); with believe that you will not disappoint me in this transfer. Please reply urgently so that we can proceed urgently. I will talk to a lawyer who shall procure the necessary documents for you to collect the money.

Note: that in the course of transferring these funds you will likely be required by the bank to affect certain transfer fees. This is important to take note of, as this is part of what informs my giving you 30% of the money after transfer due to your time and money that will be spent in assisting me transfer these funds. The bank shall see you as the Next of Kin and Legal Transferee of the funds immediately your particular is submitted and shall establish contact with you. With your cooperation, I assure you that this transfer will be concluded successfully within 14 working days. I need your full commitment and attention to see to the immediate transfer of the money.

 I will fly to your country for withdrawal and sharing and other investments. I am contacting you because of the need to involve a foreigner with foreign account and foreign beneficiary to act as Mr. George Williams?s Next of Kin. I need your co-operation to make this work fine. Because the Management of our BroadBank of Nigeria Limited is ready to approve this payment to any foreigner who has correct information of this account, which I will give to you later immediately, if you are able and with capability to handle such amount in strict confidence and trust according to my instructions and advice for our mutual benefit because this opportunity will never come again in my life. I need you to be honest and truthful in this transfer because I don't want to make mistakes and I need your strong assurance and trust.  I will use my position and influence to effect legal approvals and onward transfer of this money to your account with appropriate clearance forms o!
f the ministries and foreign exchange departments. At the conclusion of this business, you will be given 30% of the total amount, 65% will be for me, while 5% will be for expenses both parties might have incurred during the process of transferring. I look forward to your earliest reply by email. 

The following information are required from you urgently: Your personal telephone and fax numbers, your banking details where the money will be transferred, your full names and contact address and your date of birth (indicate sex and marital status). You shall contract a lawyer here to act as your Attorney if you will not be able to come personally.

Yours truly,
Austen Obigwe 





application/octet-stream attachment: 0000000000000000000000000.txt




