docno="lists-004-5730534"
received="Fri Sep 19 11:05:46 2003"
isoreceived="20030919150546"
sent="Fri, 19 Sep 2003 17:05:46 +0200"
isosent="20030919150546"
name="chrisgg1@survivormail.com"
email="chrisgg1@survivormail.com"
subject="urgent request:READ."
id="20030919150544.2BF0714240@w3c2.w3.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org






 From: Christian George.
Hello,
You may be surprised to receive this letter from
me, but it is a problem that I am convinced we can
solve, if we work together in harmony. 

I am Mr Christian George, the Special Assistant to Mr.
Charles Taylor,former  head of state of Liberia. As you may be aware, 
we had been under intense pressure
from rebels who have not relented in the quest to
unseat Mr. Taylor from power.He is presently in Nigeria on assylum 
granted to him and his cohorts by the good people of Nigeria.

As the special assistant to the President on special
duties. I had  made series of trips in the past to Lagos Nigeria 
,United Arab Emirates and Europe in the past 2 years to deposit various sums 
of money for my president in security companies.
Initially, I thought these trunk boxes contained
diamond nuggets but I later discovered that indeed
they  contained proceeds from the sale of diamonds,
which were gotten during the serrielone crises.

These trunks I discovered  usually contained $17.5 million dollars in 
100 dollar bills, the funds are  machine packed and defaced. Well on my 
discovering of this facts and knowing what fate lay ahead for all
of us, I deposited one trunk box for myself in the United Arab 
Emirates.Although the office of the security company is also here in 
Nigeria,but withdrawals are made in Dubai where they have their vault.
It is this trunk box that I now seek your help to make withdrawal and 
keep so that you can help me invest in your country.
We are presently in Nigeria on political assylum as Taylor has handed 
over to his deputy for peace initiatives as demanded by the rebels, and 
the African Heads Of governments.Our movement are restricted to calabar 
city.But I am working with my lawyer to get a Nigerian passport so that 
I can leave here as a free person.We had no alternative other than to 
leave Liberia in a haste as even the American Government wants us to 
leave.
I will come over to your country  to stay with my family since I cannot 
go back to Liberia inorder not to be jailed or killed by the 
rebels.There is presently an emernse pressure to handover Charles Taylor and his 
cohorts by the international bodies to face trials in Serielone for war 
crimes. This has triggered my desire to take a risk with this 
transaction and abarndon them here.View this website for a brief 
www.hrw.org/africa/liberia.php
AND www.liberian news.com

I believe we can make this work if you are willing to follow my 
instructions.Details of the procedure will be givien to you as soon as you 
indicate interest to work with me.  I am willing to give
you 20% of the money for your assistance.
Please, if this proposal is acceptable to you,
kindly reply me immediately so that  I can then give
you a detailed brief of what we have to do and how
to do it to achieve success. All the evidence of claims are with me 
now.But you will work with my lawyer on this project.
I await your reply soonest as time is of great
essence.
Best regards

Christian George.



