docno="lists-033-1481360"
received="Thu Oct  3 00:14:42 2002"
isoreceived="20021003041442"
sent="Sun, 10 Feb 2002 17:14:00 +0100"
isosent="20020210161400"
name="Dr Okolie Awele"
email="grantokonji@mail.gr"
subject="Assistance/ Investment"
id="200210030414.g934EbB04003@frink.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org


FROM:Dr Okolie Awele
234-803-330-7059
SOCIETE GENERALE BANK(NIG)LTD.
32/34 BREADFRUIT STREET
MARINA-LAGOS
 
ATTENTION PLERASE:
First, I must solicit your confidence in this transaction, this is by virtue of its nature as being utterly CONFIDENTIAL and TOP SECRET. 
Though I know that a transaction of this magnitude will make anyone apprehensive and worried, but I am assuring you that all will be well at the end of the day. We have decided to contact you by e-mail due to the urgency of this transaction.
Let me start by first introducing myself properly to you. I am Dr Okolie Awele a Manager at the SOCIETE GENERALE BANK NIG. LTD, Lagos. I came to know of you in my private search for a reliable and reputable person to handle a very confidential transaction which involves the transfer of a huge sum of money to a foreign account requiring maximum confidence. I am not too really sure if you are my long lost contact whom I am trying to reach, but in 
anyway, please do take this message with a good heart and revert to me if you are not the person I  think you are. I would explain more latter.
 THE PROPOSITION:
 
 A foreigner, late Engineer SANN CLARKE, an Oil Merchant / contractor with the federal Govenment of Nigeria, until his death three years ago in a 
ghastly air crash, banked with us here at SOCIETE GENERALE BANK Lagos, and had a closing balance of USD$40.M (Forty Million,United States Dollars) which the bank now unquestionably expects to  be claimed by any of his available foreign next of kin or alternatively be donated to a discredited trust fund for alms and ammunition at a military war college here in Nigeria.
 
Fervent valuable efforts has been  made by the SOCIETE GENERAL BANK to get in touch with any of the CLARKE family or relatives but all have proved 
to no avail. It is because of the perceived possibility of not going to be able to locate any of late Engr. SANN CLARKE's next of kin (he had no known wife and children) that the management under the influence of our Chairman, board of directors, CHIEF OLUSOLA SARAKI, that an arrangement for the fund to be declared"UNCLAIMABLE" and then be subsequently donated to the Trust Fund for Alms and War in Africa and the world in general.
 
In order to avert this negative development, myself and some of my trusted colleagues here at the bank now seek for your permission to have you stand 
as late Engr. SANN CLARKE's next of kin so that the fund, USD$40.M USD would be subsequently transferred and paid into your bank account as the 
beneficiary next  of kin.All documents and proves to enable you get this fund have been 
 carefully  worked out and we are assuring you a 100% risk free involvement. For your assistance, your commission would be 20%. 80%be for myself and my colleagues for investment purposes in your country.
If this proposal is OK. by you and you do not wish to take advantage of the trust we hope to bestow on you and your company, then kindly get to me immediately via my e-mail furnishing me with your most confidential telephone, fax number and exclusive e-mail so that I can forward to you the relevant details of this transaction.
Thank you in advance for your anticipated co-operation.
 
 Regards,
 Dr Okolie Awele
 MANAGER
 SOCIETE GENERAL BANK NIG.LTD.
 
N.B. PLEASE, FOR CONFIDENTIAL REASON, I WOULD 
LIKE YOU To CONTACT ME HERE  bidayoko@europe.com
 



