docno="lists-033-1521335"
received="Fri Oct  4 08:08:30 2002"
isoreceived="20021004120830"
sent="Fri, 4 Oct 2002 08:20:24 -0400"
isosent="20021004122024"
name="Arena-Watch"
email="unknown@unknown.com"
subject="New High Performance Rink System Installed In Washington State"
id="200210041208.IAA25974@tux.w3.org"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:<svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org>


New Lynnwood Ice Rink Reopens In September With New High Performance Rink
System


LYNNWOOD -- A new ice arena will open in Lynnwood Sept. 15, about four
months after the SnoKing Ice Arena closed. 
Washington Ice Skating Association, which owns both the former SnoKing
rink and the Olympicview private ice rink in 
Mountlake Terrace, is remodeling and reopening the rink as the Lynnwood
Ice Center. 

The new ice center will be in the renovated SnoKing building at 19803 68th
Ave. W. After 20-plus years of being open to 
the public, the SnoKing Ice Arena closed suddenly at the end of March.
Former SnoKing manager Doug Stewart said they 
left because "we leased the land and building, and it wasn't economically
feasible to continue it that way." Stewart said 
SnoKing owner Lexi Doner tried to get the association to lower the rent
and remodel it, but it didn't happen. Doner decided 
to close SnoKing. Doner, now owner of the Kent Valley Ice Centre, wasn't
available for comment. In the meantime, plans 
were made by association board members to renovate the old rink and make
it "safer and more enjoyable place for families 
and youth to come to," Lynnwood Ice Center general manager Kevin Urbanski
said. 

Upgrades to the facility ice rink system include a new high performance
TurboChiller refrigeration system complete with an 
advanced microprocessor control system, new sand base rink floor system,
professional steel framed dasher board system, 
and dehumidification system. The ice rink system was provided by Burley?s
Rink Supply of Johnstown, PA.  - 
www.burleys.com. "It was great to have this opportunity to work with WISA
once again after installing their Mt. Lake 
Terrace Complex some years ago.  They will be very happy with advancements
made with our TurboChiller system and the 
exceptional energy performance it provides over other ice making systems.
This owner also wanted to changed from a 
more dangerous ammonia system to a much safer environmentally stable
halocarbon refrigerant." said John Burley. "Many 
complexes installing ammonia systems today are not being installed in
accordance with local or national codes.  If someone 
is hurt or killed with these systems when not installed per code, it
becomes a criminal event for the owner and the 
architect/engineer of record. Many Canadian companies are pushing ammonia
systems without knowing, or properly 
advising owners of all true code compliance issues required to have a safe
system. Codes are different in Canada. This is 
very troublesome since ammonia is highly toxic and flammable and is very
dangerous if not installed per the letter of the 
code. There have been numerous ice rink mechanical rooms destroyed by
ammonia generated explosions."

WISA hired Seattle based construction specialist Ken Clark of Development
Services to provide coordination and project 
management services.  Mr. Clark has become well versed in arena
construction activities having spearheaded almost a 
half a dozen projects in recent years and with many more projects where he
was a consultant. 

Ryan General Construction provided all construction services. Ryan also
helped round out the circle of experienced 
contractors since Ryan was involved with several previous ice rink
projects such as the Castle Ice complex finished last 
year in Renton, Washington.  John Burley said  "it is great working with
the combination of talent we had on this project. 
Both Ken and Peter know these types of projects well and make the most
adverse construction obstacle easy to 
overcome. And, since renovations take some extra effort and experience, it
was great to have them on this project." 

Mr. Ken Clark of Development Services can be contacted at 206-236-2756.
Mr. Peter Meyer of Ryan Construction can be reached at 425-488-4489.
Mr. John Burley of Burley?s Rink Supply can be reached at 1-800-428-7539.

The new center is a non-profit organization, said Ric Newgard, executive
director of Seattle Junior Hockey and 
secretary/treasurer for the association. The association is made up of the
Seattle Skating Association and Seattle Junior 
Hockey. Both are non-profit groups that make their money through bingo
halls in Edmonds and Mountlake Terrace, and 
pull tab games offered in connection with the Silver Dollar Casino on
220th Street SW in Mountlake Terrace. The new ice 
center has a new ice surface, lobby, pro shop with new skates and a snack
bar. The renovation has added a birthday 
room, an arcade, a DJ music booth for weekend youth events and special
lighting. The parking lot is more open, bright 
and safe, Urbanski added.



