docno="lists-008-9829314"
received="Wed Nov 27 23:54:50 2002"
isoreceived="20021128045450"
sent="Thu, 28 Nov 2002 05:52:19 +0100"
isosent="20021128045219"
name="Segun Badmus"
email="segunbad_1@zwallet.com"
subject="your urgent action needed"
id="200211280454.gAS4sZA18281@frink.w3.org"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"


To:ietf-discuss@w3.org


FROM THE DESK OF: DR. SEGUN BADMUS (PHD)
        EMAIL: seg_ba@consultant.com
    ELECTRONIC FAX: 775-521-8686 (USA)


ATTN: PRESIDENT/CEO

Dear Sir/Madam,

First, I must solicit your strictest confidence in the transaction. I know that we have not had any previous communication prior to this but due to the urgent and critical position we have found ourselves at this present time, we have decided to send you this message asking for your kind and humble assistance in carrying out a transaction which though may seem very herculean but infact very simple and straightforward to handle. To intimate you further, I am a top official, and member of the new civilian administration Contract Review Committee on the Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) in my country, who are interested in the importation of goods into our country with funds which are presently trapped over here in our apex bank. In order to actualize this dream, we seek your assistance to transfer the said-trapped funds into an interest bearing account which you have absolute control over in your country or a third country other than my country. 

The new civilian administration of General Olusegun Obasanjo (rtd) set-up this committee specifically to review all contracts/projects awarded/executed for the Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) to determine their propriety and relevance in the light of the country's current economic and political realities. We have identified a lot of inflated contract funds that are presently floating in our apex bank, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). At this moment we have worked out modalities within ourselves, and some acquaintances at the apex bank, to divert the sum of US$29,300,000.00 (twenty-nine million, three hundred thousand United States Dollars) only, for our personal use.  However, by virtue of our positions as Civil Servants and members of the Committee on the PTF, we cannot acquire this money in our names hence our seeking your assistance through this medium. Consequently, I was delegated by my colleagues as a matter of trust to lo!
ok for an overseas partner into whose account we can transfer this sum of money to recieve and safekeep on our behalf.

Furthermore, my colleagues and I are willing to transfer the total sum into your account for disbursement. Your areas of specialization is not a hindrance to the successful execution of this transaction and the account required for this project can either be PERSONAL or COMPANY account which you have total and absolute control over. Needless to say, the trust reposed on you at this juncture is enormous. In return, we have agreed to offer you 10% of this sum, 85% for us officials, while 5% shall be set aside for incidental expenses between the parties in the course of this transaction. You must however note that this transaction is subject to the following terms and conditions: - 
 
 (a) Our conviction of your transparent honesty and diligence;
 (b) That you would treat this transaction with utmost secrecy and confidentiality;
 (c) That the funds would be transferred to an account where you have absolute control over. 
Note that everything however depends on your response to conditions A to C above. 
 
Modalities have been worked out to the highest level for the immediate transfer of the funds within 14 working days subject to your satisfaction of the above stated terms. Our assurance is that your role is RISK FREE. To accord this transaction the legality it deserves and for mutual security of the funds, the whole approval procedures will be officially and legally processed with your name or the name of any company you may nominate as the bona-fide beneficiary of the funds in question and with us providing the needed and necessary documents to show that you are entitled to this funds, there will be no stopping the funds being transferred into your nominated account. 

Once more, I want you to understand that having put over 23 years in the civil service of my country, I am averse to having my image and career dented. This matter should be treated with your utmost secrecy and urgency. Kindly expedite action as we are behind schedule to enable us include this transfer in this batch of payments to foreign contractors as payments is usually carried out on quarterly basis. Contact me immediately via my email address as soon as you receive this mail so that we can proceed with this transaction at once, providing me with your private telephone number in your response so that I may call you at once and we can then discuss further and I will then bring you into the complete picture of this transaction. It is very important that you do this please. Thank you very much and I await your urgent response to this message. I will advice that you treat this mail as urgent and important as this is a serious matter and should be handled as!
 such. I will provide you with a private telephone number where you can always reach me during the course of this transaction after I must have received your response to this mail and also after speaking to you on the phone. God bless you immensely and please avoid delays. Thank you.

I await your urgent response to this mail.

Yours faithfully,

Dr. Segun Badmus (PhD).



