docno="lists-084-15567558"
received="Thu Nov 16 01:02:57 2000"
isoreceived="20001116060257"
sent="Wed, 15 Nov 2000 23:14:40 -0500"
isosent="20001116041440"
name="Harvey Bingham"
email="hbingham@acm.org"
subject="Implementations re Checkpoints 3."
id="5.0.0.25.2.20001109141323.00a41160@pop.rcn.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org

The following suggestions augment the current Implementation Report. I have
identified each with the prefix "IR--"

IR--Implementation Report augmentations

    3.1 Allow the user to configure the user agent not to render background 
images. In this configuration, provide an option to alert the user when a 
background image is available but has not been rendered. [Priority 1]

IR--Add for Microsoft Internet Explorer 5.0 for MS-Windows
    Can turn off images, but nothing explicit for background images:
       On the Tools menu in Internet Explorer, click Internet Options.
       Click the Advanced tab.

     Netscape Communicator 4.74 Edit Preferences Colors allows selection
     of background color, and "Always use my colors, overriding 
document.

3.2  Allow the user to configure the user agent not to render audio, video, 
or animated images except on explicit request from the user. In this 
configuration, provide an option to render a substitute placeholder in 
context for each unrendered source of audio, video, or animated image. When 
placeholders are rendered, allow the user to activate each placeholder 
individually and replace it with the original author-supplied content. 
[Priority 1]

IR--Microsoft Internet Explorer 5.0 for MS-Windows
     To turn off animations, videos, sound:
    On the Tools menu Internet Options the Advanced tab, clear
    Play animations, Play videos, or Play sounds check boxes.
No clear statement of what replacements are used.

Opera 3.61
    Preferences Multimedia separate choices are available to enable:
    Animations, Video Presentation, Background Sound and
    Music. Automatic Document Loading, Plugins, and Scripting
    Languages. No clear statement of what replacements are used.

3.3 Allow the user to configure the user agent to render animated or 
blinking text as motionless text. [Priority 1]

Techniques for checkpoint 3.3

IR--Microsoft Internet Explorer 5.0 for MS-Windows
     To turn off animations:

    On the Tools menu in Internet Explorer, click Internet Options.
    Click the Advanced tab, clear  Play animations check box. If off,
    an animation can be played by right-clicking in the image space
    of the animation, then clicking Show Picture. The alt text may be
    an adequate equivalent that can be read. Note: There is no assurance
    that the image space can be found, so that it can be played.

Netscape Communicator 4.74, View choice is Stop Animations.

Opera 3.61 allows disabling animations
    Under Preferences menu Multimedia, unselect Enable Animations
3.4 Allow the user to configure the user agent to render blinking images as 
motionless images. [Priority 1]
Techniques for checkpoint 3.4

IR--MSIE 5.0 supports the non-html <marquee>...</marquee>.
     The text content flows right to left across the display window.
     Disabling Animation has no effect.

     Netscape Communicator 4.74 supports the non-html <blink>...</blink>,
     and without a stylesheet it appears there is no way to turn it off.
     It blinks one second on, then one second off.

     Opera 3.61 statically displays both blink and marquee.

3.5 Allow the user to configure the user agent not to execute scripts or 
applets. In this configuration, provide an option to alert the user when 
scripts or applets are available. [Priority 1]
Techniques for checkpoint 3.5

IR--Microsoft Internet Explorer 5.0 allows Java VM JIT compiler for
     virtual machine to be enabled/disabled, also a Java console,
     and Java logging.

     Netscape Communicator 4.74 can base acceptance of scripts or
     applets on user verification of certificates for Java applets
     and JavaScripts.

     Opera 3.61  Preferences Multimedia Can separately enable
     Plugins, and Scripting Languages.

3.6 Allow configuration so that an author-specified "client-side redirect" 
(i.e., one initiated by the user agent, not the server) does not change 
content except on explicit user request. Allow the user to access the new 
content manually (e.g., by following a link). [Priority 2]
Techniques for checkpoint 3.6

IR--Each browser permits user selection and initiation of link-following.

3.7 Allow configuration so that author-specified content refreshes do not 
change content except on explicit user request. Allow the user to request 
the new content manually (e.g., by activating a button or following a 
link). Continue to alert the user, according to schedule specified by the 
author, that a manual request will refresh the content. [Priority 2]
Techniques for checkpoint 3.7

IR--Microsoft Internet Explorer 5.0 has an explicit refresh capability,
     from an icon on the toolbar.

     Netscape Communicator 4.74 has a Reload menu choice.

     Opera 3.61, via F5, refreshes.

3.8 Allow the user to configure the user agent not to render images.
[Priority 2]
Techniques for checkpoint 3.8

IR--Microsoft Internet Explorer can show or ignore pictures (but not
     substitute the alt text unless hovering over the rectangle where
     the image would appear.) To disable showing pictures, from the
     Tools menu, Internet Options, Advanced, Multimedia Options
     clear the Show pictures. If not showing pictures, a right click,
     over the image area rectangle, followed by Show Picture does
     load and show it.

     Netscape Communicator 4.74 Edit Preferences Advanced has an option
     to automatically load images.

     Opera 3.61 allows three image selection choices:
        Do not load and show images
        Show loaded images only (choice independently for each window)
           toggle the camera icon to switch. Display alt text if any.
        Load and show images


Regards/Harvey Bingham



