docno="lists-077-9705029"
received="Wed Sep 12 09:39:55 2001"
isoreceived="20010912133955"
sent="Wed, 12 Sep 2001 09:39:47 -0400"
isosent="20010912133947"
name="David Poehlman"
email="poehlman1@home.com"
subject="it pours in:Fw: [Lockergnome Windows Daily]  America's Steadfast Spirit"
id="002901c13b90$63bc51a0$2cf60141@mtgmry1.md.home.com"
charset="Windows-1252"
expires="-1"


To:"wai-ig list"<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>


----- Original Message -----
From: "Lockergnome Windows Daily" <subscriptions@lockergnome.com>
To: <poehlman1@home.com>
Sent: Tuesday, September 11, 2001 11:38 PM
Subject: [Lockergnome Windows Daily] America's Steadfast Spirit


20010912 Lockergnome Windows Daily

              09.12.2001 GnomeREPORT


      Don't hate.

      Even as these horrific events unfold before our eyes, rationality
needs to win over emotion. Am I shocked by today's events? Yes. Am I
outraged? Beyond. But I also know that violence manifests itself every
day - and not just in America. Terrorism is appalling no matter WHERE it
materializes. Nobody knows who did this. Nobody knows their motivations.
Nobody knows much of anything at this point. But one thing's for sure: I
WILL NOT GIVE THEM THE SATISFACTION of altering my personal life. The
worst thing we could do right now is give in to fear, shut down, and
hide. If we do, then they've won. And ya know what? I bet that's what
they wanted to happen - and they won't get it from me.

      Sadly, you can pick up a newspaper any day of the year and read
about human suffering. While the destruction of the World Trade Center
in New York is undoubtedly one of the most horrific events in American
history, it should not overshadow past or future acts of aggression
anywhere else. As of this morning, our country has certainly been
awakened to a larger (global) problem. Many of you noticed the American
flag replacing our regular Webcam images. We are a nation which has
weathered many a storm, and in each instance, our steadfast spirit has
increased. Let's show them that they haven't weakened us; they've made
us stronger.

      And the ripple-effect will not impact Gnomedex, as it were.

      My Inbox has been flooded with inquiries on what's going to be
happening with Gnomedex this weekend. Straight up? We aren't positive at
this point (due to current FAA uncertainties). We want to hold the
conference as scheduled; our team invested a lot of time and energy into
creating a successful event. Know this: if a flight is still available,
I'll be taking it back to Iowa. We don't know WHAT to do other than
continue to do what we planned on doing. Otherwise, they'll win - and
we'll lose. I (personally) want to do what I can to turn this tragedy
into a triumph.

      With your permission, I'd want to launch a humanitarian effort at
Gnomedex, too. If for no other reason than to show the world that we
cannot and will not succumb to threats. It seems that our blood is
needed most, so a blood drive may be in order? If that's not feasible,
we'll find something else to show our support. We can mourn this
devastating experience together, but not let it get the best of us.

      Please... don't hate. If you care to share your thoughts and
feelings on today's events, use this special page.

      Chris Pirillo

            DNS MANAGEMENT MADE EASY: Faster, more reliable connections
mean busier, more profitable Web sites. That's exactly what you can
expect when you outsource your DNS with UltraDNS Service. And you'll
never lose another customer because of DNS failure -- ever. Click Here
for details!



             GnomeDOWNLOADS



      Feng Shui v1.1 [40k] W9x/2k FREE

      http://www.sharppack.com/downloads/kua/kuagen.exe
      http://www.sharppack.com/downloads/kua/
      http://screenshot.lockergnome.com/fengshui.png


      {Get your Kua number} I have to admit that I've never gotten into
Eastern philosophy, but Feng Shui -- the idea that our physical
surroundings play a part in how we function -- is pretty interesting.
Using this soothing digital soothsayer, you can discover what your "Kua
number" is. All you have to do is enter in the year of your birth to
receive your number (and your luckiest element, object, and colors). It
also displays a direction map and offers a career tip. Hey, I just moved
Oogie Boogie to the other side of the desk. I feel better already. Of
course, the four gallons of coffee I just drank probably have something
to do with it, too.


      FillCD v2.0 [1.0M] W9x/2k FREE

      http://www.fillcd.com/files/FillCD20b.exe
      http://www.fillcd.com/
      http://screenshot.lockergnome.com/fillcd.png


      {Use the whole media} If you're copying files from your computer
to a CD-R, I suppose you could just keep adding 'em until the CD can't
take anymore. Or, you could put that ol' brain to rest and try this
program. It'll take a list of files and tell you which ones will fit
snuggly onto your CD. This will ensure that you take full advantage of
the CD's capacity. Your settings will be saved for the next burning
session, too. "Just specify the size to use and how close to 100% you
want to fill [the CD]." Have you had your fill?


             GnomeSYSTEM



      Codex v1.02 [686k] W9x/2k FREE

      http://homepage.eircom.net/~informail/downloads.html


      "Codex is a program designed to help in the publishing of source
code, be it in print or Web page format. It can export source code to
HTML or RTF format, for publication, with fully customized syntax
highlighting and styling. It can export directly to an FTP or to your
local drive. It has a batch export mode and supports over 30 languages
and file types." Also available: FileOps, a program that helps rename,
timestamp, shred, encrypt, and upload files; and Syspy, another system
information retrieval tool."


             GnomeSOAPBOX



      Printer Ports (Advice)
      Scribbled by Michael Miller

      http://www.ctips.com/ecp.html


      In trying to help someone with their scanner problem, I did a
search about the ECP printer port found this site which explains ECP. I
then rebooted my computer, hit Delete to access the Peripheral Setup
part of my BIOS, switched from EPP to ECP, and saved the changes. Then,
after exiting, I turned on my printer (the scanner was already on).
Windows 98 then found the ECP Port, installed the drivers to allow the
printer (a Canon BJC240L) to use the ECP Port. I used the scanner
software (Canon CanoScan FB-620P). For a test, I used a fairly large,
complex color graphic. It was as if I had an entirely new scanner! It
was amazing to witness the speed at which the work proceeded! I just
wanted to pass along this tip to whomever might benefit.

      [Soapbox submissions reflect the opinions of the scribbling
author, not necessarily those of Lockergnome]


             GnomeFAVORITE



      TweakXP

      http://www.tweakxp.com/


      {Change is good} I must tweak, for it is the call of the geek. Ya
know, we like to take things apart and see how they work -- and if we
can, we like to make them work more to our liking. This site is
dedicated to working with the forthcoming Windows XP; it offers all
kinds of improvements and customizations, including: interface, system
performance, and Internet tweaks. My favorite part of this site is the
forums; you can learn a lot from other people. Most of the tips can be
mastered by darn near everyone, but it's always a good idea to backup
your system before playing with it.


             GnomeTIP



      Whenever I need to know something about Outlook Express, I turn to
Tom Koch (the guy who runs TOMSTERDAM.COM). Someone was asking me about
what they could do to keep spam from entering their Inbox. Sure enough,
our favorite OE MVP has published a tip which involves setting up a rule
in Outlook Express. Click Tools | Message Rules | Mail. In the
Conditions field, place checkmarks next to "Where the From line contains
people" and "Where the To line contains people" (both of them). In the
Actions field, place a checkmark in the "Delete it from server" option.
Then, in the Rule Description field, click on the "contains people"
option. In the resulting dialog, enter the "@" symbol (sans quotes),
click the Add button, then before clicking OK, click the Options button
and select the "Message does not contain the people below" option. Do
the same for the second "contains people" Rule Description hyperlink.
Now, click on the "and" and select the "Messages match any one of the
criteria" option. Finally, name the new rule whatever you wish. WARNING:
this tip may throw babies out with the bathwater. Apply with caution.
For bonus points, do you know what the Outlook Express executable
(MSIMN.EXE) stands for? Microsoft Internet Mail and News.

            PC USERS NEED THIS BOOK: The Book That Should Have Come with
Your Computer: "...has become MY BIBLE..." "...I can't find this
information anywhere else..." just a few of the comments we've received
on this book-on-CD-ROM. Fully searchable PDF format! CLICK HERE and get
the book that tells what every computer user needs to know.



                  http://www.lockergnome.com/issues/daily/20010912.html
                  Your subscribed e-mail address is:
[poehlman1@home.com] - To unsubscribe or change your delivery address,
please visit the subscription management page. For further information,
please refer to the GnomeCREDITS in the sidebar.




     LOCKERGNOME


       Latest Windows Daily
       Latest Digital Media
       Latest Tech Specialist
       Latest Bits & Bytes
       Latest Wacky Snaps
       Latest Audio Show

       Recommend Us!
       Advertise With Us
       High-Tech Job Search
       Chat With Gnomies
       View Our Media Kit
       Our AvantGo Channel
       Watch The Webcams


       Submit Your Opinion
       Read Past Issues
       Download X-Setup
       About Lockergnome
       Our Privacy Policy
       View More Options
       Get Chris's Book


       Questions / Help
       General Feedback
       Submit Suggestions
       Rants & Raves
       E-mail the Editor




            GNOMESPECIALS


       Pretty Good Solitaire
       NotePage, Inc
       Atelier Web
       SnapStream:RecordTV
       FirstStop WebSearch
       Paraben Screen Capture
       500+ PC Tips
       Web Editors
       TextAloud MP3
       ThatHostingCompany


      Get Listed Here

      Question: which group is 250,000+ strong and always looking for
stuff to make their personal and professional lives run smoother?


            GNOMEDEX




      New Low Price!

      Only $39.00!

      8Wire
      CityView
      Stardock
      Microsoft
      Mediafour
      Mediacom
      eSellerate
      Spindustry
      State of Iowa
      Business Record
      DSM Partnership
      Midwest NewsNet


            GNOMEPEEPS


      This week's Gnomie is Dave Weaver. "Along with my wife, I love to
cook. The Recipes here are favorites of mine." Why I like this site:
They love to cook; I love to eat!

      If you would like to be the featured Gnomie of the Week, just grab
the GnomeCODE and put it on your Web site.

      And now, you (too) can experience the thrill of vacuum brewing
coffee. It's not very tasteless. And that's a good thing.

      Waiter Percolator




            CLICK HERE TO ZOOM




            GNOMECREDITS


      ?2001, Lockergnome LLC. ISSN: 1095-3965. All Rights Reserved.
Chris Pirillo spits out all the content. Please read our Terms of
Service. Our Web site is hosted by DigitalDaze.






       Search Past Issues:



