docno="lists-046-14636018"
received="Mon Jul  9 10:13:59 2001"
isoreceived="20010709141359"
sent="Mon, 09 Jul 2001 10:14:02 -0400"
isosent="20010709141402"
name="Janet Daly"
email="janet@w3.org"
subject="News Release: World Wide Web Consortium Issues First Public Working   Draft of SOAP Version 1.2"
id="3B49BC2A.19C11E68@w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-news@w3.org
CC:janet@w3.org



World Wide Web Consortium Issues First Public
Working Draft of SOAP Version 1.2

Open efforts amongst W3C Members and Developer Communities
Produce XML-based solution for Data Transport

Contact America -- 
     Janet Daly, <janet@w3.org>, +1.617.253.5884 or +1.617.253.2613 
Contact Europe -- 
     Marie-Claire Forgue, <mcf@w3.org>, +33.492.38.75.94 
Contact Asia -- 
     Saeko Takeuchi <saeko@w3.org>, +81.466.49.1170 


Web Resources:

Press Release:
http://www.w3.org/2001/07/soap12wd-pressrelease.html.en

Testimonials, from IBM, Interwoven, Microsoft and Xerox
(included in this mail):
http://www.w3.org/2001/07/soap12wd-testimonial

W3C SOAP Version 1.2 Working Draft:
http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/WD-soap12-20010709

W3C XML Protocol Abstract Model Working Draft:
http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/WD-xmlp-am-2001070

W3C XML Protocol Activity Homepage:
http://www.w3.org/2000/xp/

http://www.w3.org/ -- 9 July 2001 -- The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
today releases the first public working drafts of SOAP Version 1.2 and
the XML Protocol Abstract Model. By formally publishing these working
drafts at an early stage of the design work, W3C is ensuring that the
public can follow the development of SOAP Version 1.2 and the XML
Protocol Abstract Model, and contribute to a final result that is widely
accepted and adopted.

XML Protocol Technologies Are Necessary for Web Development

Data transport is as central to modern computing as is data storage and
display in the networked, decentralized, and distributed environment
that is the Web. As XML emerges as the preferred format for data
processing, the challenge is for both the sender and the receiver to
agree on a transfer protocol at the application level or layer - whether
the transfer is to occur between software programs, machines, or
organizations.

W3C's XML Protocol Activity addresses this problem, and has been at work
on both requirements for an XML Protocol specification and on the
specification itself, using the W3C Note SOAP/1.1 as a model for 
evaluation. After producing the XML Protocol Requirements document 
and reviewing significant feedback from developer communities, 
the XML Protocol Working Group has published SOAP Version
1.2 and the XML Protocol Abstract Model.

SOAP Version 1.2 Provides Support for W3C Recommendations, Refined
Processing Model

The XML Protocol Working Group has the goal of developing technologies
which allow two or more peers to communicate in a distributed
environment, using XML as its encapsulation language. These solutions 
allow a layered architecture on top of an extensible and simple
messaging format, which provides robustness, simplicity, reusability 
and interoperability.

SOAP Version 1.2 provides a specific framework for XML-based messaging
systems, which includes specifying a message envelope format and a
method for data serialization, and fulfills requirements spelled out 
in the charter, including the integration of core XML Technologies. 
For example, SOAP Version 1.2 uses datatypes provided by XML Schema, 
a W3C recommendation for expressing XML vocabularies in an extensible 
manner, to serialize data such as object and directed labeled graphs. 
It also makes use of XML Namespaces as a flexible and lightweight 
mechanism for handling XML language mixing.

SOAP Version 1.2 brings a refined processing model, which reduces
ambiguities created by various interpretations of the SOAP/1.1
Specification. SOAP Version 1.2 includes strong recommendations for 
explicit error messages for mandatory extensions, giving developers
better information, and helping them to develop better applications. 
This provides a solid first step forward in ensuring better 
interoperability and extensibility in SOAP Version 1.2.

XML Protocol Abstract Model Describes Concepts and Relationships

As the XML Protocol Working Group labored on the XML Protocol
Requirements document and the emerging specification, they also set out
to describe how such a technology might ultimately be designed at an
abstract level. The resulting Working Draft, the XML Protocol Abstract
Model, also provides a shared vocabulary for both members of the Working
Group, and other developers already at work on applications that make 
use of earlier versions of SOAP.

Public Process Ensures Growth, Stability and Early Adoption of SOAP
Version 1.2

In a commitment to public openness and accountability, the W3C XML
Protocol Working Group works in public. The XML Protocol Working Group
Charter is a public document; technical discussions take place on the 
public xml-dist-app@w3.org mailing list; and interim drafts are made 
available for public review and comment. Developer communities outside 
of the W3C membership, as well as other organizations with interests in 
developing interoperable mechanisms for data transport, have provided
valuable input to the creation of SOAP Version 1.2.

Members of the Working Group include industry and technology leaders
such as: Active Data Exchange; Akamai Technologies; Allaire;
AOL/Netscape; AT&T; BEA Systems, Bowstreet Software, Canon; Commerce
One,  Compaq Computer Corporation; Daimler-Chrysler Research 
and Technology; DataChannel; Data Research Associates; 
DevelopMentor; Engenia Software; Epicentric; Ericsson; 
Fujitsu Software Corporation; Group 8760;  Hewlett-Packard Corporation; 
IBM; IDOOX s.r.o.; Informix Software;  Intel Corporation; Interwoven; 
IONA Technologies; Jamcracker; Library of Congress; 
Lotus Development Corporation; Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd.; 
Microsoft Corporation; MITRE Corporation; Oracle; Philips Research; 
Propel; Rogue Wave; SAP AG; Software AG; Sun Microsystems; 
TIBCO Software Inc., Unisys; Vitria Technology, Inc; webMethods; 
and Xerox.

Per the W3C process, the XML Protocol Working Group continues to receive
and respond to feedback from the public, and will make revisions to SOAP
Version 1.2 and to the XML Protocol Abstract Model as needed.

About the World Wide Web Consortium [W3C]

The W3C was created to lead the Web to its full potential by developing
common protocols that promote its evolution and ensure its
interoperability. It is an international industry consortium jointly 
run by the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science (MIT LCS) in the USA, 
the National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Control 
(INRIA) in France and Keio University in Japan. Services provided by 
the Consortium include: a repository of information about the World 
Wide Web for developers and users, and various prototype and sample 
applications to demonstrate use of new technology. To date, over 520 
organizations are Members of the Consortium. For more information 
see http://www.w3.org/


Testimonials for SOAP Version 1.2 Working Draft

IBM | Interwoven, Inc. | Microsoft Corporation | Xerox Corporation

IBM applauds the efforts of the W3C XML Protocol Working Group 
that has produced the SOAP Version 1.2 Working Draft, and is 
pleased to have contributed our staff to the chairing of the 
Working Group and the development of the specification. 
SOAP is a fundamental e-business technology. Its acceptance by 
our customers and in the general IT community is further fueling 
the need for the development of a complete Web services standards 
stack and architecture. We look forward to further cooperation 
with the W3C and its members to fully standardize SOAP and drive 
its adoption in both vertical and horizontal industry applications.
-- Dr. Robert Sutor, Director of e-business Standards Strategy, IBM

The W3C is working on the foundation for interoperability as the 
world adopts XML. Members of the XML Protocol Working Group have 
worked together to take proven SOAP technology and ensure 
compatibility with other W3C XML specifications. Interwoven continues 
to be active in the W3C working groups so that our customers have 
Content Infrastructure solutions built on proven specifications. 
This guarantees maximum leverage of content now and in the future. 
Most recently, we have just announced a Portal Software Development 
Kit (SDK) that incorporates SOAP technology.
-- Mark A. Hale, Ph.D., P.E.; Standards Architect, Interwoven, Inc.

Microsoft is pleased to see the XML Protocol Working Group release 
its first Working Draft of SOAP Version 1.2. Since co-submitting the 
original SOAP 1.0 specification to the IETF in September 1999, and 
the follow-on Technical Report SOAP/1.1 to the W3C in May 2000,
Microsoft 
has believed that the success of XML Web services is based on 
interoperable implementations supporting the underlying specifications 
for XML-based messaging. We look forward to providing continued, 
interoperable implementations of SOAP as part of our .NET vision for 
Web services as SOAP Version 1.2 becomes a W3C recommendation.
-- Philip DesAutels, Product Manager, XML Web Services; Microsoft
Corporation

Xerox Corporation applauds the publication of SOAP Version 1.2 and the 
XML Protocol Abstract Model developed by the W3C XML Protocol Working 
Group as an important milestone toward establishing a vendor-neutral 
foundation for loosely coupled interactions across the Internet. Xerox 
highly values the concept of an XML-based Web Services framework as a 
primary enabler for creating open solutions and services, and believes 
that the work of the XML Protocol WG represents a crucial foundation 
element for such a framework. Xerox is pleased to have contributed to 
this work and is committed to continuing to support it.
-- Dr. Ugo Corda, Principal Engineer, Xerox Corporation

###



