docno="lists-060-2506352"
received="Thu Oct 24 15:46:52 2002"
isoreceived="20021024194652"
sent="Fri, 25 Oct 2002 05:40:19 +1000"
isosent="20021024194019"
name="Liddy Nevile"
email="Liddy.Nevile@motile.net"
subject="WWW 2003 Global Community Track"
id="a0510032eb9ddf7ce4298@[61.68.133.240]"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To: Recipient List Suppressed:;


Friends

as Co-Chair of the Global Track at the next WWW conference in 
Budapest (see http://www.www2003.org/), I am hoping I can encourage 
you to contribute a paper to this conference.

Papers are due by November 15 and should be submitted directly to the 
WWW2003 website. (Of course, we are also looking for short papers and 
posters and panels.)

We are hoping for yet another interesting, stimulating track within 
this major, very technical Conference. The Global Community Track has 
a reputation for interesting presentations and we are keen to 
consider proposals particularly that will engage the audience. Our 
experience is that many people come just for this track, and really 
enjoy meeting people with similar interests. It is also an excellent 
opportunity for the more technical of our colleagues to come and talk 
to us about the social implications of their work.

if you have any queries, pease contact me direct.

My apologies if you have received duplicates of this email -  please 
send it on to any of your colleagues who may be interested.

Liddy
------------------
Global Community Track

Today, after more than a century of electric technology, we have 
extended our central nervous system itself in a global embrace, 
abolishing both space and time as far as our planet is concerned.

At WWW2003 (http://www.www2003.org/), we invite you to participate in 
the Global Community Track, where we will explore how the World-Wide 
Web has made McLuhan's statement part of everyday experience for 
millions of people, and what it will take to make it true for 
everyone. We will also be exploring the effect of the Web on members 
of the Global Community -- both those who currently have access and 
those who don't. We plan to provide an interesting and informative 
experience for those who are concerned with the use of the Web to 
develop and support global development to improve the lives of all 
people, around the world.

The Track will attempt to engage those who have a contribution which 
is of interest and will benefit others, whether presenters or active 
members of the audience. Some presenters will have submitted papers 
to be refereed in the usual way; we will also be specifically 
inviting a few people to contribute in this Track, and we expect many 
to come and lend their support and meet others with similar interests.

The range of topics is broad, but always the central focus will be 
"helping people everywhere reach their full potential as members of a 
Global Community, using the web". Necessarily, this topic also 
focuses on developing the web in order to maximize its potential to 
contribute to this process. Of particular interest will be 
presentations that contribute to increasing participation in and the 
value of the online world for all people. Presentations that focus on 
sustaining particular cultures and their contribution to the Global 
Community will be welcomed. In addition, the Global Community Track 
Program Committee will invite distinguished members of the research 
and cultural community to make or respond to presentations, seminar 
style.

Topics of particular interest include the needs of:

*artists, musicians and crafts people
*indigenous cultural communities
*disability communities
*global/local societies
*freedom and privacy in a Global Community
*describing, sharing access to, and discovering resources and 
services, locally and globally
*cultural communities and practices - arts, crafts, 
literature, dance, music, philosophy, and more
*creative, expository and scholarly publishing
*multi-culturalism and multi-linguality
*government and legal frameworks and policies



