docno="lists-069-15894256"
received="Thu Jun 27 15:50:13 2002"
isoreceived="20020627195013"
sent="Thu, 27 Jun 2002 14:49:31 -0500"
isosent="20020627194931"
name="Ben Caldwell"
email="caldwell@trace.wisc.edu"
subject="last-minute changes"
id="005601c21e13$c1501ca0$c317a8c0@ippiii7501"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>



Hi,

I just posted a revision to the draft that was posted yesterday to
incorporate a number of minor updates, tweaks, typo fixes, etc. In case
you're interested in the details, I?ve pasted a list of the edits below.
Many thanks to Jason for catching and submitting these.

-Ben

Introduction:

Scope: now reads, ?The guidelines cover a wide range of issues and
recommendations for making Web content more accessible. They include
recommendations to make pages accessible and usable by people with a
full range of disabilities.? Was ?The guidelines cover the wide range of
issues and recommendations for making web content more accessible. It
includes recommendations to make pages accessible and usable by people
with the full range of disabilities.?

Priorities and techniques, second paragraph: now reads ?the organization
and structure have been improved significantly.? Was ?the organization
and structure has been improved significantly.?
---

End of priorities and techniques section now reads, ?transition, please
refer to the Checkpoint Mapping Between WCAG 1.0 and the WCAG? was
?transition, please refer to the Checkpoint Mapping Between WCAG 1.0 and
WCAG?

Guideline 1

First paragraph under guideline 1 now reads, ?Essential to any access to
Web content is the ability of the user to?? was ?Essential to any access
to any Web content is the ability of the user to??

Checkpoint 1.1, example 1 ? duplicate word removed

Checkpoint 1.2, minimum level, item 5 now reads, ?real-time information,
a media equivalent is provided that conforms to checkpoint 1.1, or  a
link is provided to content elsewhere which conforms to?? was ?real-time
information, provide a media equivalent that conforms to checkpoint 1.1,
or provide a link to content elsewhere which conforms to??

Checkpoint 1.2, level 2, item 3 now reads, ?if Web content is an
interactive audio-only presentation, the user is provided with the
ability to view only the captions, the captions with the audio, or? was,
?if Web content is an interactive audio-only presentation, provide the
ability to view only the captions, the captions with the audio, or

Checkpoint 1.2, def of time-dependant presentation removed duplicate
text ?a presentation which?

Checkpoint 1.2, example 3, last sentence now reads ?Instead, a text
equivalent is provided as described in checkpoint 1.1? was ?Instead,
provide a text equivalent as described in checkpoint 1.1?

Guideline 2

Checkpoint 2.1, minimum level, item 1, ?Text in the content is provided
in Unicode or sufficient information is?? was ?Text in the content must
be Unicode or sufficient information is??

Guideline 3

Checkpoint 3.2 note now reads, ?distinctions are provided in the markup
or data model. Refer to checkpoint 2.2.? was ?distinctions are provided
in the markup. Refer to checkpoint 2.2.?

Checkpoint 3.4 now reads, ?Key orientation and navigational elements are
generally found in one or two locations or their locations are otherwise
predictable.? Was, ?the location of key orientation and navigational
elements are generally found in one or two locations or their locations
are otherwise predictable.?

Checkpoint 3.4 level 2 now reads ?the site has a statement asserting
that author(s) or others have reviewed the content and concluded that
key orientation and navigational elements are generally found in one or
two locations or their locations are otherwise predictable.? Was ?the
site has a statement asserting that they have reviewed the content and
found that the location of key orientation and navigational elements
and are generally found in one or two locations or their locations are
otherwise predictable.?

Checkpoint 3.4, additional ideas, item 2 now reads, ?similar layout for
user interface components should be used for sections or whole site,?
was similar layout for user interface components is used for sections or
whole site.?


Checkpoint 3.4, additional ideas, item 3 now reads ?similar user
interface components should be labeled with similar terminology? was
?similar user interface components are labeled with similar terminology?

Guideline 4

Checkpoint 3.4, additional ideas, item 6 now reads ?pages with similar
function should have similar appearance and layout? was ?pages with
similar function have similar appearance and layout?

Checkpoint 3.5, additional ideas, item 1 now reads, ?controls that look
or sound the same should be designed to act the same,? was ?controls
that look or sound the same are designed to act the same?

Checkpoint 3.5, additional ideas, item 2 now reads, ?conventions likely
to be familiar to the user should be followed,? was ?conventions likely
to be familiar to the user have been followed.?

Checkpoint 3.5, additional ideas, item 3 now reads, ?unusual user
interface features or behaviors that are likely to confuse the
first-time user should be described to the user before they are
encountered.? Was ?unusual user interface features or behaviors that are
likely to confuse the first-time user are described to the user before
they are encountered.?

Guideline 5

Checkpoint 5.1, example 1 now reads, ?Throughout a Web site, structural
elements are not used for purposes of presentation. Likewise,
presentational elements are not used for purposes of structure.? Was ?Do
not use structural elements for purposes of presentation. Likewise, do
not use presentation elements for purposes of structure.?

Checkpoint 5.1, example 2 now reads, ?A Java program uses the
accessibility API defined by the language. Refer to the IBM Guidelines
for Writing Accessible Applications Using 100% Pure Java.? Was ?Use the
Accessibility API when programming in Java. Refer to the IBM Guidelines
for Writing Accessible Applications Using 100% Pure Java.?

Checkpoint 5.2, minimum level now reads, ?baseline user agent
requirements have been determined and are documented in metadata and /
or a policy statement on the site.? Was ?you have determined and
documented your baseline user agent requirements in metadata and / or a
policy statement on your site.?



--
Ben Caldwell | caldwell@trace.wisc.edu
Trace Research and Development Center (http://trace.wisc.edu) ? 



