docno="lists-060-5851347"
received="Mon Jan 26 09:49:27 2004"
isoreceived="20040126144927"
sent="Mon, 26 Jan 2004 15:49:31 +0100"
isosent="20040126144931"
name="Karen Mardahl"
email="karen@mardahl.dk"
subject="additions to the ATAG 2.0 Glossary"
id="000101c3e41b$9b0b3a00$0201a8c0@karen"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:<w3c-wai-au@w3.org>



Hi everyone

I have the latest terms to be added to the Glossary, which is now only in
ATAG 2.0 and not the ATAG-TECHS. I took what Tim sent me and added one of my
own.

For any items where I wrote ?? - I would be grateful for more
input/inspiration as to why this might be needed in Glossary. I couldn't
find instances where the term would be indicated as being unclear. I will
gladly stand corrected on my comments to this ?? - I just need input!

Glossary term is in CAPS followed by definition proposal. It seems easier to
discuss glossary terms in writing - not that it can't be brought up in the
call tonight - so written comments are most welcome!

regards, Karen Mardahl

* * * *

ACCESSIBLE CONTENT

?? Already in place in Glossary under "Accessible" - so I don't think is
necessary as a separate entry. One instance of this word combination does
link to "Accessible" in Glossary.

ACCESSIBLE METHOD

?? Isn't this covered in "GUIDELINE 2: Ensure that the tool is designed to
produce accessible content: This guideline requires that authoring tools
must generate standard markup and support accessible authoring practices".
"Accessible Authoring practices" is in the Glossary. Not clear if practices
and methods are considered 2 different animals?

APPLICABLE WCAG REQUIREMENTS

??

AUTHOR

For the purposes of this document, an author is a user of an authoring tool

AUTHORING TOOL INTERFACE

For the purposes of this document, this refers to the controls and
mechanisms of the tool used by an author to produce content.

CHECKING

Checking refers to built-in mechanisms in the authoring tool that bring
accessibility problems to the author's attention through some form of
notification. Notifications can take various forms as described in ATAG
Checkpoint 3.2. Checking can be considered a reminder of corrections that
should or must be made.

DISCOVERABLE

?? I couldn't find the reference in ATAG 2.0 and I am guessing that this
refers to the Dublin Core somehow. dublincore.org doesn't even have a def
for this term in their glossary even though phrases like making info
"discoverable and accessible" abound in relation to DC. Doesn't this make
this just a regular dictionary term, and thus perhaps unnecessary for the
Glossary?

EXCEPTION?

?? Sound like a code term: It returned an exception code. Isn't this a
rather technical term that might be specific to programmers and coders, and
a bit too "granular" for our purposes? Couldn't find what may have caused
this to be mentioned as a glossary term.

INFORMATION ICON?

??

INTERFACE PRIORITY

??

REPAIR (ING?)

Repairing refers to correcting, completing, deleting, or replacing whatever
elements are giving accessibility problems. Suggested methods for dealing
with repairs are described in ATAG Checkpoint 3.3.

TECHNIQUES

Informative suggestions and examples of how a checkpoint can be satisfied. 
(Definition inspired by UAAG - I added this word because I really didn't see
it stand out and get explained anywhere. Thought of non-native English
speakers.)

TYPICAL AUTHOR

For the purposes of this document, a typical author is defined as the user
of the authoring tool who concentrates on preparing the content of a
document and who relies on the tool for editing, styling, and formatting
purposes.

WORKFLOW

The entire sequence of steps or tasks that are followed to produce a
deliverable.



