docno="lists-004-7458256"
received="Mon Sep 29 19:49:00 2003"
isoreceived="20030929234900"
sent="Tue, 30 Sep 2003 00:44:06 +0200"
isosent="20030929224406"
name="MR USMAN IDIRIS."
email="umid@samsung.co.kr"
subject="VERY URGENT REPLY NEEDED IMMEDIATELY FROM YOU."
id="20030929234853.DE0B413CA1@dr-nick.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



Dear Sir 

I will advise that you read thoroughly and 
carefully, through this mail. This transaction is 
highly confidential and 100% risk free. It should be 
strictly between you and me. 

I am a director in the Federal Ministry of Works and 
Housing (FMWH) formerly mandated to head the 
committee that looked into failed,uncompleted and 
over-invoiced contracts in my ministry and presently 
the director contract payment division. 

During the course of investigation it was found that 
the sum of US$29M[twenty nine million US Dollars] was 
issued for an over invoiced contract but this said 
money is in the Central Bank of Nigeria [CBN] 
suspense account. Owing to the policy in the country 
as against public servants operating foreign account 
and also to have that kind of huge amount in our 
local accounts, I am soliciting for an individual to 
transfer this money into his foreign account for 
personal investment purpose. 

Note clearly that this transaction has been well 
planned. I have followed all the required official 
contract award/ payment procedures, and all 
documents to facilitate the smooth conclusion of 
this transaction are legitimate and officially in 
order. 

There is no problem, this contract is LEGAL. THIS 
TRANSACTION IS A BUSINESS DEAL BETWEEN YOU AND I, 
BUT IT IS LEGITIMATE AND GENUINE TO THE AUTHORITIES. 
I want to assure you that you have nothing to fear 
about, your main priority should be to give us your 
total co-operation, And follow my advice 
/instructions. You should consider this transaction 
as already successful & concluded. 

What is required is for me to have you registered as 
a foreign contractor with my ministry as category 
'A' contractor for this I would require you to 
provide me with your company name, address and phone 
with fax number for the registration, it is after 
this has been done that I will make you the sole 
beneficiary of the fund and submit for payment 
processing to your nominated account to the relevant 
ministry. 

Consider this transaction as successful and 
completed for I have taken  care of all modalities 
and official procedures involved legitimately 
and as required. 

Note clearly that as top Government officials in 
Nigeria, occupying very sensitive top Government 
position we receive little salaries compared to our 
positions. Once more I want you to understand that 
this transaction is 100% risk free. 

We will discuss the percentage to be given to you 
before we proceed. 

Best Wishes, 

MR USMAN IDIRIS (Engr) 
N.B: Reply to alternative email address 



