docno="lists-004-4546919"
received="Sat Sep 13 15:17:07 2003"
isoreceived="20030913191707"
sent="Sat, 13 Sep 2003 21:17:21 +0200"
isosent="20030913191721"
name="prince mabaka"
email="princmabak@netscape.net"
subject="URGENT/ASAP NOTIFICATION."
id="20030913191704.71AE0142F4@w3c2.w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



FROM: PRINCE MABAKA STEPHENS.
EMAIL :princemabaka@netscape.net

with warm hearts I offer my friendship, and my greetings, and I hope this letter meets you in good
time. It will be surprising to you to receive this proposal from me since you do not know men personally.
However, I am sincerely seeking your confidence in this transaction, which I propose with my free mind
and as a person of integrity.
My name is PRINCE MABAKA , the son of STEPHEN MABAKA , a farmer from Zimbabwe, murdered in the land dispute in
my country. As led by my instinct, I deided to contact you through email,after searching for contacts via the internet, as it is the only means I
can contact anybody since I am cutting off ties with Zimbabwe for now. I apologize if this is not acceptable to you.
The purpose of this letter is to seek your most needed assistance in a business venture. Due to the land and
political problems in Zimbabwe, as a result of President Robert Mugabesintroduction of new Land Act Reform.
wholly affecting the rich white farmers and the few rich black farmers, all white
farmers were asked to surrender their farms to the government for re-distribution
and infact to his political party members and my father though black was
the treasury of the farmers association and a strong member of an opposition
party that did not support the president's idea.
He then ordered his party members and the police under his pay row to invade my father's farm and burn down
everything in the farm. They killed my father and took away a lot of properties from his farm.
After the death of my father, our local pastor and a close friend of my father handed us over will
documents with instructions from my father that we should leave Zimbabwe incase anything happen to him.
The will documents has a ertificate of deposit, confirming a cash deposit totaling Twelve million
five hundred thousand united state dollars. [12.5m] Kept in custody for us in a security company unknown
to the company that the content is money hence it was deposited as pesonal belongings. This money was
deposited with this Private Security Company for safety and security reasons, and was to be used for
the purchase of land, new machines and chemicals establishment of new farms in Botswana.
This violent and barbaic act by Mugabe has since led to the death of my beloved mother and kid sister and
other innocent lives.
I was continually threatened to abandon my inheritance from my father after he was murdered. I resisted for a
while, but when the danger bcame unbearable, and I survived two murder attempts,I fled Zimbabwe with the help of my father's close friend Mr. John Casahans
from Australia also a farmer who was leaving in Zimbabwe with us but left with his family following this ugly developmnt I have tried to reach him
but all to no avail.
I am currently staying in the Netherlands where I am seeking political asylum. In fact my decision to come here to seek
asylum, is because the security company from South Africa, has a branch here, I
have contacted them to move the safe deposit from their office in Johannesburg here, which they have since done.
I need to transfer this money to an account and invest part of the money. Since the law of Netherlands
prohibits a refugee (aslum seeker) to open any bank account or to be involved in any financial transaction,
this is why I am seeking agenuine and reliable partner, whose account this money can be trasferred, hence this proposal
to you.
You have to understand that this decision taken by me is a very big and brave one, and it entrusts my future
in your hands, as a result of the safe keeping of this money.
If you accept to assist me, all I want you to do for me, is to assist with arrangements to claim the depsit from the security
company from their office here in The Netherlands, as it has now been transferred from Johannesburg, South Africa to
their branch here. The company will be  informed of you representing me.
For your assistance, I have two options for you.
Firstly you can choose to have 20% of the money for your assistance, and helping me open an account for
the money to be deposited here, or you can go into patnership with me for the proper profitable
investment of the money in your country. Whichever the option you want, please to notify me in your reply.
I have also set aside 1 % of this money for all kinds of expenses that come our way in the process of this
transaction, and 4% for Charity donation. If you prefer to accept the 20% for your moral and financial
assistance then the balance will be left in the account here for me.
Please, I want you to maintain absolute secrecy for the purpose of this transaction.Your reply should be sent to my private
email address only where upon i shall brief you on the modalities to ensuring
its realisation.
I look forward to your reply and co-operation, and I
thank you in advance as I anticipation
e your co-operation.
Sincerely,
PRINCE MABAKA STEPHENS.

  



