docno="lists-017-3707513"
received="Wed Dec 31 19:36:19 2003"
isoreceived="20040101003619"
sent="Thu, 1 Jan 2004 11:33:33 +1100 "
isosent="20040101003333"
name="Patrick.Hung@csiro.au"
email="Patrick.Hung@csiro.au"
subject="The 3rd ICWS 2004 CFP  Research Papers, Industrial Extended Abst ract and Tutorial"
id="57C87AAEA6B0BC479B69F110575ECCCF7F6225@saabbt.act.cmis.CSIRO.AU"
charset="iso-88591"
expires="1"


To:public-p3p-spec@w3.org


*************** Happy 2004 **************** 

Apologies if you receive multiple copies of this message.


2004 IEEE International Conference on Web Services (ICWS 2004)
==============================================================
Theme: Convergence of Web Services, Grid Computing, e-Business and Autonomic
Computing
July 6-9, 2004, San Diego, California, USA
http://conferences.computer.org/icws/2004/

Sponsored by IEEE Computer Society Technical Community for Services
Computing (TCSC)
http://tab.computer.org/tcsc/



----------------------------------------------------------
ICWS 2004 Call for Papers
----------------------------------------------------------

ICWS is a forum for researchers and industry practitioner to exchange
information regarding advancements in the state of art research and practice
of Web Services, to identify emerging research topics, and to define the
future directions of Web Services computing. ICWS 2004 has special interest
in papers that contribute to the convergence of Web Services, Grid
Computing, e-Business and Autonomic Computing, or those that apply
techniques from one area to another. The industry application areas that are
of interest are business-to-business integration, business process
integration and management, content management, e-sourcing, composite Web
services creation, design collaboration for computer engineering, multimedia
communication, digital TV, and interactive Web solutions. Currently, Grid
computing has also started to leverage Web services to define standard
interfaces for Business Grid services and generic reusable Grid resources.

As the first academic conference in the field of Web services, the 2003
First International Conference on Web Services (ICWS'03) was held at the
Monte Carlo Resort in Las Vegas, Nevada, June 23 - 26, 2003, attracting
hundreds of participants from 25 countries (USA, India, France, China, Hong
Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Australia, Canada, UK, Sweden, Switzerland, The
Netherlands, Germany, Japan, Italy, Korea, Thailand, Finland, Austria, New
Zealand, Poland, and Turkey). ICWS'03 has proven to be an excellent catalyst
for research and collaboration. With the growing interests of Web Services
in both business and scientific information management practice, we fully
expect that ICWS 2004 will continue this success. The program of ICWS'04
will feature a variety of papers on fundamentals, infrastructure, technology
support, and business management for Web Services. Topics of interest
include, but are not limited to, the following:
- Mathematical foundations of Web Services
- Data Management Issues in Web Services
- Frameworks for building Web Service applications
- Composite Web Service creation and enabling infrastructures  (e.g.,
workflow technology)
- Web Services Modeling & Design
- Web Services Discovery & Selection
- Semantic Web, Ontologies, and Web Services
- Dynamic invocation mechanisms for Web Services
- Contractual Issues between provider and consumer of Web Services
- Version Management in Web services
- Customization of Web Services
- Software reusability
- Web Services architecture
- Web Services Negotiation & Agreement
- UDDI and SOAP enhancements
- Web Services and Process Management
- Trust, Security & Privacy in Web Services
- Scalability and Performance of Web Services
- Web Services Standards and Technologies
- Autonomic Computing for Web Services Infrastructure
- Autonomic Middleware and Toolkits for Monitoring and Management
- Autonomic e-Business integration and collaboration
- Wireless Web, Mobility, and Web Services
- Web Service Based Grid Computing and Peer to Peer Computing
- Business Grid Solution Architecture
- Web Services based Applications for e-Commerce
- Quality of service for Web Services
- Multimedia applications using Web Services
- Grid Architectures, Middleware and Toolkits
- Grid Services Integration and Management
- Economics and Pricing models of utility computing and Web Services
- Resource management of Web Services
- Solution Management for Web Services
- Adoption of Web Services by organizations
- Case studies on Web Services based applications
- Business process integration and management using Web Services
- Impact of Web Services Architecture on Business continuity
- Changing role of Information Technology Departments in Organizations


PUBLICATION:

All accepted papers will be published in the conference proceedings in
hardcopy and on-line version by IEEE Computer Society. The selected papers
will be invited to for submission to the International Journal of Web
Services Research (JWSR), International Journal of Grid and Utility
Computing, International Journal of Business Process Integration and
Management, and International Journal of Autonomic Computing.


IMPORTANT DATES:

January 26 (Monday): Abstract Submission (optional)
Feb. 2, 2004 (Monday): Submission Due
March 19, 2004 (Friday): Notification of acceptance
April 16, 2004 (Friday): Camera-Ready copy & Author Pre-registration due
July 6 - July 9, 2004: ICWS'04 International Conference on Web Services


PROGRAM COMMITTEE CO-CHAIRS

Prof. Dr. Hemant Jain
Wisconsin Distinguished &
Tata Consultancy Services Professor
School of Business Administration
University of Wisconsin- Milwaukee
Milwaukee, WI 53201, USA
Phone: (414) 229-4832
Fax: (414) 229-6957
jain@uwm.edu

Prof. Dr. Ling Liu
College of Computing
Georgia Institute of Technology
801 Atlantic Drive, Atlanta
Georgia 30332-0280, USA
Phone: (404) 385-1139
Fax: (404) 894-9846
lingliu@cc.gatech.edu


ORGANIZING COMMITTEE

General Chair:
Liang-Jie Zhang (zhanglj@us.ibm.com), IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA

Industrial Track Co-Chairs:
Sinisa Zimek (sinisa.zimek@sap.com), SAP Labs, Inc. USA
Roger Barga (barga@microsoft.com), Microsoft Research, USA

Tutorials Chairs:
Abdelsalam (Sumi) Helal, (helal@cise.ufl.edu) University of Florida, USA

Panels Chair:
Calton Pu, (calton@cc.gatech.edu) Georgia Tech, USA

Poster Chair:
Mario Jeckle (mario@jeckle.de), U. of Applied Sciences Furtwangen, Germany
Graciela Gonzalez (csc_ghg@shsu.edu), Sam Houston State University, USA

Demo & Exhibits Chair:
Simanta Mitra (smitra@iastate.edu), Iowa State University, USA

Publication Chair:
Jen-Yao Chung (jychung@us.ibm.com), IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA

Sponsor Chair:
David B. Flaxer (flaxer@us.ibm.com), IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA

Local Arrangement Chair:
Kwei-Jay Lin, UCI, USA

Publicity Chairs:
Patrick C. K. Hung (Patrick.Hung@csiro.au), CSIRO, Australia
Haifei Li, Nyack College, USA
Minglu Li, Shanghai Jiaotong University, China

Web Chair:
Carolyn McGregor, U. of Western Sydney, Australia
Jia Zhang, Northern Illinois University, USA


PROGRAM COMMITTEE

Karl Aberer, EPFL, Switzerland
Akhilesh Bajaj, University of Tulsa, USA
Roger S. Barga, Microsoft Research, USA
Claudia M Bauzer Medeiros, UNICAMP, Brazil
Elisa Bertino, University of Milano, Italy
Krishna Bhagavatula, TCS America, USA
Athman Bouguettaya , Virginia Tech, USA
David Buttler, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, USA
Mohammed I. Bu-Hulaiga, Joatha Informatics Consulting, Saudi Arabia
Fabio Casati, Hewlett-Packard, USA
Ugur Cetintemel, Brown University, USA
Alok Chaturvedi, Purdue University, USA
Michael Champion, Software AG & W3C Web Services
Architecture Working Group, USA
Jian Chen, Tsinghua University, China
Dickson K.W. Chiu, Dickson Computer Systems, Hong Kong
Alok Choudhary , Northwestern University, USA
Jen-Yao Chung , IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Brian F. Cooper, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Terence Critchlow, LLNL, USA
Isabel Cruz, Uni. of Illinois at Chicago, USA
Francisco Curbera, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
David De Roure, University of Southampton, UK
Asuman Dogac, Middle East Technical University, Turkey
Phillip Ein-Dor, Tel-Aviv University, Israel
David W Embley, Birmingham Young University, USA
Opher Etzion, IBM Research Laboratory, Israel
Peter Fankhauser, Fraunhofer IPSI, Germany
Dieter Fensel, DERI, Ireland
Avigdor Gal, Technion, Israel
Wolfgang Gentzsch , Sun Microsystems, USA
Amarnath Gupta, University of California, San Diego, USA
Marc N. Haines, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, USA
Sumi Helal, University of Florida, USA
Alan R. Hevner, University of South Florida, USA
Michael N. Huhns, University of South Carolina, USA
Patrick C. K. Hung, CSIRO, Australia
Varghese S. Jacob, University of Texas at Dallas, USA
Mario Jeckle, University of Applied Sciences, Furtwangen, Germany
Vipul Kashyap, National Library of Medicine, USA
Daniel S. Katz, JPL/Caltech, USA
Martin Kersten, CWI, The Netherlands
Michael Kifer, SUNY at Stony Brook, USA
Roger (Buzz) King, University of Colorado at Boulder, USA
Hiro Kishimoto, Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd., Japan
Hiroyuki Kitagawa, University of Tsukuba, Japan
Manolis Koubarakis, TUC, Greece
Ee-Peng Lim, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
Bertram Ludaescher, San Diego Supercomputer Center, UCSD, USA
Sanjay Madria, University of Missouri-Rolla, USA
Leo Mark, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Dennis McLeod, University of Southern California, USA
Deependra Moitra, Infosys Technologies Ltd, India
MGPL Narayana, Tata Consultancy Services, India
Derek L. Nazareth, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, USA
Erich J. Neuhold, Fraunhofer IPSI, Germany
Murthy Nukola, Composite Software, USA
Kesav V. Nori, Tata Consultancy Services, India
Beng Chin Ooi, National University of Singapore, Singapore 
Aris M. Ouksel,The University of Illinois at Chicago, USA
Srinivas Padmanabhuni, Infosys Technologies Ltd, India
Yannis Papakonstantinou, UCSD, USA
Bijan Parsia, Univ of Maryland, USA
Ajit Patankar, UC Berkeley / Diginome, USA
Thomas E. Potok, Oak Ridge National Lab (ORNL), USA
Calton Pu, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Sandeep Purao, Penn State University, USA
Uday Ramteerthkar, Tata Research & Development Center, India
Louiqa Raschid, University of Maryland, USA
T. Ravichandran, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, USA
Berthold Reinwald, IBM Almaden Research Center, USA
Arnon Rosenthal, The MITRE Corporation, USA
Marcus A. Rothenberger, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, USA
Akhil Sahai, Hewlett Packard Laboratories, USA
Hans-J. Schek, ETH Zurich, Switzerland  and UMIT Innsbruck, Austria
Todd Schraml, The Revere Group, USA
Vipul Shah, Tata consultancy Services America, USA
Ming-Chien Shan, Hewlett Packard Laboratories, USA
Amit Sheth , University of Georgia, USA
Munindar P. Singh, North Carolina State University, USA
Il-Yeol Song., Drexel University, USA
Rudi Studer , University Karlsruhe, Germany
Vijay Sugumaran, Oakland University, USA
Katia P. Sycara, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Mohan Tanniru, University of Arizona, USA
George K. Thiruvathukal, Loyola University of Chicago, USA
Jeffrey J.P. Tsai, University of Illinois at Chicago, USA
Werner Vogels, Cornell University, USA
Kaladhar Voruganti, IBM Almaden Research Lab
Sanjiva Weerawarana, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Kyu-Young Whang, KAIST, Korea
Clement Yu, U. of Illinois at Chicago, USA
Carlo Zaniolo , UCLA, USA
Xiaodong Zhang , William and Mary College, USA
Yanchun Zhang, Victoria University, Melbourne, Australia
Yanqing Zhang, Georgia State University, USA
J. Leon Zhao, University of Arizona, USA
Huimin Zhao, University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee, USA



----------------------------------------------------------
ICWS 2004 Industrial Program - Call For Extended Abstracts
----------------------------------------------------------

The industrial track of ICWS 2004 will be the forum for high quality
presentations on innovative commercial and industrial software for all
facets of web services.  These include significant applications leveraging
web services, standards for web services, business-to-business applications,
application integration, business process integration and management,
content management, composite web services, multimedia communication, and
benchmarking.  Submissions that do not relate to marketplace trends,
industry standards, commercial software (or industrial-strength prototypes)
are discouraged.  You are welcome to send email with any questions you might
have as you prepare your submission to either of the industrial program
co-chairs: 

   Roger Barga (barga@microsoft.com) or Sinisa Zimek (sinisa.zimek@sap.com)


Authors should submit an extended abstract (5 pages maximum) with the same
formatting rules as research papers.  Unlike research track, minimal or no
reviews of submissions will be provided to authors during notification.
Acceptance criteria will be innovativeness of software and the potential of
impact.  Please send industrial program submissions by e-mail to the
following industrial program co-chair: 

   Sinisa Zimek (sinisa.zimek@sap.com)

to arrive by 5 p.m. US Pacific Standard Time on February 2nd, 2004.
Submissions that exceed the 5 page limit or arrive after the February 2nd
deadline may be rejected without further consideration.



----------------------------------------------------------
ICWS 2004 Tutorial Program - Call For Tutorial
----------------------------------------------------------

Tutorial proposals should identify the intended audience and outline the
scope and the depth of material to be covered. Past experience and successes
of the presenter should be given explicitly and will be considered
positively. We are particularly interested in tutorials that foster
knowledge exchange among the researchers present at ICWS 2004. The time
allocated for the tutorial is 4 hours.

The length of tutorial proposals should not exceed 5 pages including the
short biographies of tutorial presenters. They should be submitted to the
tutorial program chair by email to J. Leon Zhao at lzhao@bpa.arizona.edu on
or before Friday, March 5, 2004.  If you need to submit materials in
hardcopy, please send to:

J. Leon Zhao, Ph.D.
Associate Professor
Department of Management Information Systems
Eller School of Management
University of Arizona
Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA



