docno="lists-004-14733292"
received="Sat Jun 12 01:55:45 2004"
isoreceived="20040612055545"
sent="Fri, 11 Jun 2004 22:40:19 -0700"
isosent="20040612054019"
name="autoresponse@neopets.com"
email="autoresponse@neopets.com"
subject="RE: Mehr fuer Auslaender als fuer Deutsche tun!"
id="20040612054019.28168.qmail@qmailer.dohring.com"
inreplyto="Mehr fuer Auslaender als fuer Deutsche tun!"
expires="-1"


To:ietf-charsets@w3.org


Hi there,



Thanks for submitting your poem. It is currently being considered for the latest edition of our Poetry Contest. Below are some guidelines and helpful hints that you might want to consider when sending in your poems.



RULES



There aren't too many rules for the Poetry Contest, but if you send us a

poem and it doesn't get posted with the other current winners, then here are

some reasons why it might not have gotten in.



1. Copying the poem of another NeoPets user and submitting it as your own is

plagiarism, and it's wrong. If you send us another user's poem, and attempt

to claim it as your own, then there is a strong possibility that your

account will be frozen... so DON'T DO IT!!!



2. Your poem should come to us in one of two ways; either in the body of an

email message, or as a .doc or .txt attachment. To be honest with you, we'd

prefer that you sent your poems within the text of the email; by and large,

we'd rather stay away from opening attachments.



3. In order for us to post your poem, you need to tell us your username.

Otherwise, we won't be able to give you credit for the poem and send you

your prize. However, keep in mind that we only need your username, and NOT

YOUR PASSWORD! Anyone who tells you that they need your password is trying

to scam you, so DON'T tell them, whatever you do!



4. Your poem must include characters, places and events that relate to the

NeoPets site. If you submit a poem that isn't related to NeoPets, your

account won't be frozen... just don't expect to see it posted anytime soon.





HELPFUL HINTS



1. We prefer to post poems that are 100% original. However, if you really

want to submit a Neopian version of "The 12 Days of Christmas" or Edgar

Allan Poe's "The Raven," then by all means send it in. Keep in mind, though,

that we receive a dozen or so "parodies" every week, so unless your version

is really, REALLY good, then it probably isn't going to be selected.



2. If you're looking for something to write about, then visiting the New

Features page is a great way to find some inspiration. Poems relating to

current events on the site stand a much better chance of winning. If a new

world has just been launched, or if there's an ongoing plot (such as "The

Search for Coltzan's Crown," or "Neopets Version 2") then it might be a good

idea to make it the topic of your poem.



3. Ideally, poems should be somewhere in the neighbourhood of 25 to 75 lines

long. Now, we realise that great poems come in many shapes and sizes, but

it's just awfully hard to pick a three line haiku over a well-written poem

that's fifty lines long (especially when there's only five winners for each

contest).



By the same token, REALLY long poems (100+ lines), usually don't fare too

well, either. Why? Because most users don't want to sit there and scroll

through an epic poem that takes twenty minutes to read. Every once in a

while, if it's unusually good, we'll put up a really long poem; however,

this tends to be the exception, and not the rule.



4. As long as a poem is well written, then style or format isn't much of an

issue. It doesn't really matter whether a poem rhymes or doesn't rhyme, and

in the past a number of Haikus, Acrostic Poems, and Sonnets have been chosen

as winners.



However, since they are only three lines long, if you choose the Haiku style

as your format, it's probably a good idea to write 5-8 haikus that all

relate to a specific topic. For example, a single three-line haiku about

your Kadoatie probably won't get picked; however, a series of six or seven

haikus about, say, Krawk Island Petpets, will stand a much better chance.



Also, we receive quite a few acrostic poems for the word "Neopets," so if

you send one in, the chances of it being posted aren't very good. In the

past, we've had some very creative uses of Acrostic poems, such as a Lost

Desert poem in the shape of a pyramid. So, if you're planning to do an

acrostic poem, it's really going to need "something extra" to have any shot

at getting posted.



Thanks,

The NeoPets Team

-----Original Message-----
From: ietf-charsets@w3.org
To: poems@neopets.com
Subject: Mehr fuer Auslaender als fuer Deutsche tun!

Lese selbst:
http://www.dsz-verlag.de/Artikel_04/NZ15_1.html



