docno="lists-017-3614518"
received="Fri Dec 12 11:43:07 2003"
isoreceived="20031212164307"
sent="Fri, 12 Dec 2003 17:39:23 +0100"
isosent="20031212163923"
name="Rigo Wenning"
email="rigo@w3.org"
subject="[fwd] PR: Privacy Manager of the Year and Privacy Company of the Year Announced"
id="20031212163923.GK1435@rigo.w3.org"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To: public-p3p-spec<public-p3p-spec@w3.org>



Dear all, 

I'm pleased that Anne received this award as she was such a help for P3P
in all those years.

For IBM, the award might encourage them to further maintain or extend
their support for P3P and other privacy languages. 

Best, 
-- 
Rigo Wenning            W3C/ERCIM
Policy Analyst          Privacy Activity Lead
mail:rigo@w3.org        2004, Routes des Lucioles
http://www.w3.org/      F-06902 Sophia Antipolis

----- Forwarded message from  The Privacy Manager <robert@theprivacymanager.com> -----

From: Robert@stanford.loosefoot.com, Vinet@stanford.loosefoot.com,
Publisher@stanford.loosefoot.com,
The Privacy Manager <robert@theprivacymanager.com>
To: Rigo@stanford.loosefoot.com, Wenning@stanford.loosefoot.com,
W3C@stanford.loosefoot.com, France <rigo@w3.org>
Date: Thu, 11 Dec 2003 03:49:04 GMT
Subject: PR: Privacy Manager of the Year and Privacy Company of the Year Announced
Organization: The Privacy Manager


For Immediate Release

December 10, 2003

The Privacy Manager of the Year 2003: Ann Cavoukian, Ph.D.

Fredericton, NB, Canada - The Publisher of The Privacy Manager monthly
newsletter, Robert Vinet, is please to announce Ann Cavoukian as The
Privacy Manager of the Year 2003.

"It is with great pleasure that we recognize Ann Cavoukian, the
Information and Privacy Commissioner for Ontario, as The Privacy Manager
of the Year, 2003," said Robert Vinet, Publisher and Editor of The
Privacy Manager.

"Dr. Cavoukian is a world renowned leading authority on privacy and data
protection issues and her expertise is regularly sought throughout the
industry. Ann understands privacy very well and is an unusually wise
privacy leader."

"Whether Ann is speaking before Government committees, business groups
or giving advice to law enforcement agencies, she always takes a
middle-of-the-road approach that still respects the privacy of
citizens," said Vinet

"Dr. Cavoukian is always ready to providing insight into the importance
of good privacy practices. Ann recognizes business demands as well as
the public safety needs in this complicated post-September 11 world. Ann
agrees that public safety is paramount but she insists this must be
balanced against privacy. Ann understands the value of consumer
information but advocates preserving privacy as a good business
practice," said Vinet.

As Commissioner, Dr. Cavoukian oversees the operations of Ontario's
freedom of information and privacy legislation that applies to both
provincial and municipal governments. This past year, she has been
instrumental in preparing companies across Canada ramp up for the
federal Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act. On
January 1, 2004, PIPEDA comes into effect for all companies and
not-for-profit organizations doing business in Canada.

In October 2003, the publishers of The Privacy Manager, an monthly
newsletter targeted to the privacy professionals around the world, asked
their subscribers to nominate candidates for both The Privacy Manager of
the Year and The Privacy Company of the Year. The winners were chosen
from the list of nominees.

"Many privacy leaders from around the world were nominated as The
Privacy Manager of the Year. But the one name the kept coming up was
that of Dr. Cavoukian," said Robert Vinet, Publisher and Editor of The
Privacy Manager. "We looked at all the nominees, and the one person that
was head and shoulders above the rest was Ann."

"In a world were medical records, credit reports, employment records and
communications are being stored electronically, profiled and put up for
sale, Dr. Cavoukian is able to guide businesses to succeed while still
preserving their customers' privacy."

"We live in a world where, increasingly, every detail of our lives -
everything from where we go, what we buy, who we speak with and what we
do - can be known to others at the click of a mouse. We live in a world
where Governments, in the pretext of fighting terror, want to combine
every piece of data about us so they can know us better than we know
ourselves," said Vinet.

"It is in this world that we find Dr. Ann Cavoukian influencing
corporations to take a middle-of-the road-course between the demands of
privacy and those of profit. Dr. Cavoukian steers Government agencies to
balance security with the 'right to be left alone.' It is this
intelligent foresight and competent guidance that has led us to name Dr.
Ann Cavoukian The Privacy Manager of the Year 2003," added Vinet.

Ann Cavoukian, Ph.D., has been the Information and Privacy Commissioner
of Ontario since May 1997. Ann is often called upon to share her
expertise at leading industry forums.

Ann stresses that companies will gain a significant advantage over their
competitors when they carve out a reputation for protecting personal
information.

Her published works include two books. "Who Knows: Safeguarding Your
Privacy in a Networked World (McGraw-Hill, 1996)" which she co-wrote
with Don Tapscott is consumer-oriented. Her most recent book, "The
Privacy Payoff (McGraw-Hill Ryerson, 2002)" co-authored by technology
journalist Tyler Hamilton, addresses how successful businesses build
customer trust. The Privacy Payoff is aimed at small and medium sized
business and provides an excellent insight into the importance of good
privacy practices.

Dr. Cavoukian's most recent research paper is entitled "Privacy and
Boards of Directors: What You Don't Know as a Director Can Hurt You."
The paper explains what internationally recognized fair privacy
principles are, outlines the business case for implementing sound
privacy practices and suggests key steps that company directors should
take.

Ann is interested in advancing privacy protections through
privacy-enhancing technologies and has been involved in a number of
international committees focused on privacy and technology, including
the World Wide Web Consortium's P3P (Platform for Privacy Preferences)
initiative. She has also served as a member of the American Task Force
on Privacy, Technology and Criminal Justice Information.

Ann received her M.A. and Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of
Toronto, where she specialized in criminology and law, and lectured on
psychology and the criminal justice system.

About The Privacy Manager The Privacy Manager
(<www.ThePrivacyManager.com>) is a subscription newsletter on privacy
and privacy-related issues. Every month The Privacy Manager provides
news and analysis from around the world to privacy leaders around the
world. The Privacy Manager enables business leaders to understand and
respond to the latest privacy trends and developments. The Privacy
Manager web site features a news section that is updated every weekday.
The site has a new Career Center where companies can post open positions
for free. The site also hosts a calendar page that lists privacy events
around the world.

The Privacy Manager is written for business, technology, and government
leaders who manage data systems, handle consumer affairs, provide legal
advice, and work for government agencies.

The Privacy Manager is published monthly by privately held Privacy
Publishing Corporation.

Note: The current issue of The Privacy Manager is available for free
downloading at
<http://www.theprivacymanager.com/special/requestv0312.htm>


Other Media Releases Released Today: 1. The Privacy Company of the Year
2003 - IBM Corporation 2. The Privacy Manager Announces Free Privacy
Career Center

Robert Vinet, Publisher and Editor The Privacy Manager 74 Kenneth St
Fredericton, NB Canada  E3B 8B4

<http://www.ThePrivacyManager.com>

Phone: +506.454.7580 Fax: +916.314.8247

###

For Immediate Release

December 10, 2003

The Privacy Company of the Year 2003 - IBM Corporation

Fredericton, NB, Canada - Robert Vinet, Publisher of The Privacy Manager
newsletter said, "It is with great pleasure that we recognize IBM
Corporation as The Privacy Company of the Year 2003 for their
outstanding promotion of sound privacy practices and their development
of privacy software."

"The massive improvements in processor power, storage capacity and
network connectivity are enabling businesses and Governments to create
unprecedented quantities of digital data, much of it personal
information," said Vinet. "We live in an increasingly networked world in
which instantaneous data transfers across borders are routine business
transactions. Companies are grappling to operate within different data
protection policies in the various jurisdictions in which they operate."

"It is in this environment that IBM developed a new programming language
called the Enterprise Privacy Authorization Language (EPAL) that applies
privacy rules across interconnected business systems. With EPAL,
personal data can have policies attached to it as it moves from
application to application within an enterprise around the world," said
Vinet.

International organizations must respect different privacy legislation
around the world. This means they must build privacy into their business
practices and systems and develop corporate cultures of privacy to earn
the trust of clients, potential clients, and data protection regulators.

In October 2003, the publishers of The Privacy Manager - a monthly
newsletter targeted to the privacy professionals around the world -
asked their subscribers to nominate candidates for both The Privacy
Manager of the Year and The Privacy Company of the Year. The winners
were chosen from the list of nominees.

"IBM was nominated for The Privacy Company of the Year more than any
other company," said Robert Vinet, Publisher of The Privacy Manager.
"Several other companies from around the world were nominated, but the
number of nominations IBM received outnumbered the others put together.
In fact, IBM received so many nominations for its software development,
research and promotion of sound privacy principals that we almost felt
compelled to award them The Privacy Company of the Year on that basis
alone."

"Protecting the personal information of citizens is essential in today's
interconnected world where large volumes of personally identifiable
information are stored and managed electronically and available to
others at a click of a mouse," said Robert Vinet.

"National and multinational companies with huge databases that need to
be accessed by various divisions, for different purposes, often struggle
with how to comply with often conflicting privacy laws and regulations.
With IBM's EPAL, companies can build privacy rules into databases so the
various regulations across different jurisdictions can be respected,"
said Vinet. "This is a significant move forward for large corporations
in this interconnected world where different countries have different
approaches to personal data," added Vinet.

On December 1, 2003, IBM announced it was turning EPAL over to the World
Wide Web Consortium (W3C) in the hopes that it will become an
international standard and will help automate privacy management tasks,
improve consumer trust and reduce the cost of privacy compliance.

"It is for this software and IBM's overall approach to privacy that we
are please to recognize the IBM Corporation as The Privacy Company of
the Year 2003," added Vinet.

Based on Extensible Markup Language (XML), EPAL enables developers to
build security policy enforcement features directly into enterprise
software applications. The EPAL standard builds upon existing privacy
specifications such as the Platform for Privacy Preferences (P3P).

The Privacy Manager (<www.ThePrivacyManager.com>) is a subscription
newsletter on privacy and privacy-related issues. Every month The
Privacy Manager provides news and analysis from around the world to
privacy leaders around the world. The Privacy Manager enables business
leaders to understand and respond to the latest privacy trends and
developments. The Privacy Manager web site features a news section that
is updated every weekday. The site has a new Career Center where
companies can post open positions for free. The site also hosts a
calendar page that lists privacy events around the world.

The Privacy Manager is written for business, technology, and government
leaders who manage data systems, handle consumer affairs, provide legal
advice, and work for government agencies.

The Privacy Manager is published monthly by privately held Privacy
Publishing Corporation.

Note: The current issue of The Privacy Manager is available for free
downloading at
<http://www.theprivacymanager.com/special/requestv0312.htm>


Other Media Advisories Released Today: 1. The Privacy Manager of the
Year 2003 - Ann Cavoukian 2. The Privacy Manager Announces Free Privacy
Career Center

Robert Vinet Privacy Policy Consultant Publisher and Editor, The Privacy
Manager Robert(at)ThePrivacyManager.com

74 Kenneth St Fredericton, NB Canada  E3B 8B4

<http://www.ThePrivacyManager.com>

Phone: +506.454.7580 Fax: +916.314.8247


-30- ###



----- End forwarded message -----



