docno="lists-072-6663004"
received="Tue Feb 17 18:39:39 2004"
isoreceived="20040217233939"
sent="Tue, 17 Feb 2004 17:39:24 -0600"
isosent="20040217233924"
name="Gregg Vanderheiden"
email="gv@trace.wisc.edu"
subject="UBER 3.1 proposal &ndash;&ndash; to combine 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, and 1.4"
id="0HT900K875Q11R@smtp4.doit.wisc.edu"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-wai-gl@w3.org


Submitted herein is a proposal to combine 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, and 1.4

 

In an email to follow I will send all of the bugzilla issues that are
addressed by this.

 

There are some questions in the proposal where discussion is needed. 

 

This was quite a challenge.  Look forward to discussing it on Thurs.

 

Thanks to Ben for all of his work on this with me.

 

Gregg

 

 

 

 

 


Guideline 3.1. Ensure that the meaning of content can be determined


Level 1 success criteria for 3.1


1.The natural language of the document as a whole can be identified by
automated tools, including assistive technology. 
2.The meaning (and pronunciation if non-standard) of abbreviations and
acronyms are defined in place (for example, using a parenthetical statement
or markup) each time they occur OR are found in one of the cascading
dictionaries directly associated with the content. 
3.The meaning and pronunciation of all words that are not written in
the primary natural language of the content are found in one of the
cascading dictionaries directly associated with the content.
Exception

*The pronunciation and description of proper names is optional. 


Level 2 success criteria for 3.1


1.All abbreviations and acronyms in the text are identified through
markup. (possible?) (necessary?) 
2.All words or phrases that are in a language other than the primary
natural language of the content are identified through markup or other
means. (possible? necessary?) 
3.The meaning of all idioms in the content can be determined through
the cascading dictionaries. 
4.Where the pronunciation of the word changes based on its meaning, a
markup is provided to indicate the appropriate meaning for the word.
(possible?) 


Level 3 success criteria for 3.1


1.If abbreviations or word contractions are used that are not unique
and are covered by cascading dictionaries, then additional markup or another
mechanism for disambiguation is provided. 
2.Where a word has multiple meanings and the desired meaning is not
the first in the associated dictionary(s), then additional markup or another
mechanism for determining the correct meaning is provided. 
3.Content is not presented in all capital letters. 
4.There is a statement associated with the content asserting that the
Strategies for Reducing the Complexity of Content in Appendix E were
considered. http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/WCAG20/complex-content-notes 


Possible items for additions to level 3


1.Paragraphs develop a single topic or subtopic. 
2.Section headings and linked text are understandable when read by
themselves (for example, in a screen reader's list of links or a table of
contents). 
3.Page titles are informative and unique. 

  _____  

The following success criteria were removed because they require the author
to define the intended audience. There is no way to test this since there is
no way for anyone but the author to know who the intended audience is or
even if they intended to include people with disabilities in their audience.

1.The resource uses vocabulary which is widely used by members of the
intended audience. 
2.The length and complexity of sentences are consistent with
recommended best practices for the intended audience, such as those found in
current textbooks about writing in the audience's field or discipline. 

The following success criteria are not machine or human inter-rater reliably
testable

1.The document uses page design, graphics, color, fonts, animations,
video, or audio to clarify complex text as necessary. (necessary for who?) 
2.inclusion of non-text content to supplement text for key pages or
sections of the site where they felt it was appropriate. (where who thought
it was appropriate?) 

 

 


NOTES ON DEFINITIONS RELATED TO THIS ITEM


 

1.add a definition of text to address representation in Unicode

a.text -  Content expressed as characters that are in Unicode or can
be automatically translated into Unicode. 

2.add a definition to the glossary for Unicode to address issue 673
(would be linked from the definitions above and below as well as from the
relevant SC
3.add unicode to the definition of non-text content:

a.non-text content includes but is not limited to images, text in
raster images, image map regions, animations (e.g., animated GIFs), ASCII
art, images used as list bullets, spacers, graphical buttons, sounds (played
with or without user interaction), stand-alone audio files, audio tracks of
video, and video. it also includes any text that can not be translated into
Unicode.

4.add a link to the definition of text and non-text content to the new
definition of "text"
5.add a note in guideline 1.1

a.note: characters that are not in Unicode or can not be automatically
mapped to Unicode are not text.

6. add a definition of ASCII art to address Issue 420

a.ASCII art - Graphic representations that are created by a spatial
arrangement of text characters. Although it can be rendered on a text
display, it is not text. 

 

 

 


Gregg

------------------------

Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D. 
Professor - Depts of Ind. Engr. & BioMed Engr.
Director - Trace R & D Center 
University of Wisconsin-Madison 
< <http://trace.wisc.edu/> http://trace.wisc.edu/> FAX 608/262-8848  
For a list of our list discussions http://trace.wisc.edu/lists/

 <http://trace.wisc.edu:8080/mailman/listinfo/>  

 

 



