docno="lists-019-12218880"
received="Tue Apr 20 13:06:16 2004"
isoreceived="20040420170616"
sent="Tue, 20 Apr 2004 23:03:28 -0500"
isosent="20040421040328"
name="masinka  ameh"
email="masinka_ameh01@pehchaan.com"
subject="Letter from masinka, A.,your response is needed urgent."
id="200404202303.AA60948758@pehchaan.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:<masinka_ameh01@pehchaan.com>


FROM: 
MR.MASINKA AMEH
GRAND BANK OF BENIN 
PHONE:871-76-2535865 
FAX:  871-76-2535866 
masinka_ameh01@sify.com

Dear Sir, 

In order to transfer out (USD 45 MILLION) Forty Five million United States Dollars) from  GRAND BANK REPUBLIC OF BENIN. I have the courage to ask for your assistance to handle this important and confidential business believing that you will never let me down either now or in future. 
I am MR.MASINKA AMEH, the MANAGER of the bank. There is an account opened in this bank in 1980 and since 1990 nobody has operated on this account again. After going through some old files in the records, I discovered that if I do not remit this money out urgently it will be forfeited for nothing. The owner of this account is Mr. PAULTON ALLENS, a foreigner, and an engineer with  D&D Engineering CO, and he died since 1990. No other person knows about this account or any thing concerning it, the account has no other beneficiary and my investigation proved to me as well that this company does not know anything about this account and the amount involved is (USD 45M)  I want to transfer the [USD45M] Forty Five million United States Dollars into a safe foreigners account abroad , but I don't know any foreigner, I am only contacting you as a foreigner because this money can not be approved to a local bank here, but can only be approved to any foreign account because the money is in us dollars and the former owner of the account is Mr PAULTON ALLENS is a foreigner too. I know that this message will come to you as a surprise as we don't know our selves before,but be sure that it is real and a genuine business. I only got your contact address through the internet,hoping that you will never let me down in this business. I need your urgent reply  so that I will inform you on the next step to take I will like you to Send also your private telephone and fax number including the full details of the account to be used for the deposit.I want us to meet face to face or sign a binding agreement to bind us together so that you can receive this money into a foreign account or any account of your choice where the fund will be safe. I will fly to your country for withdrawal & sharing and other investments. I am contacting you because of the need to involve a foreigner with foreign account and foreign beneficiary. I need your full co-operation to make this work fine because the management is ready to approve this payment to any foreigner who has correct information of this account, which I will give to you later immediately, if you are able and with capability to handle such amount in strict confidence and trust according to my instructions and advice for our mutual benefit because this opportunity will never come again in my life. I need truthful person in this business because I don't want to make mistake I need your strong assurance and trust. With my position now in the office I can transfer this money to any foreigner's reliable account, which you can provide with assurance that this money will be intact pending my physical arrival in your country for sharing. I will destroy all documents of transaction immediately we receive this money leaving no trace to any place. You can also come to discuss with me face to face after which I will make this remittance in your resence and two of us will fly to your country so at least two days ahead of the money going into the ccount. I will apply for annual leave to get visa immediately I hear from you that you are ready to act and receive this fund in your account. I will use my position and influence to effect legal approvals and onward transfer of this money to your account with appropriate clearance forms of the ministries and foreign exchange departments. At the conclusion of this business, you will be given 35% of the total amount, 60% will be for me, while 5% will be for expenses both parties might have incurred during the process of transferring. I look forward to your earliest reply. 

THANKS AND GOD BLESS, 
YOURS SINCERELY,          
MR.MASINKA AMEH.



