docno="lists-004-9240687"
received="Sun Dec 21 13:53:13 2003"
isoreceived="20031221185313"
sent="Sun, 21 Dec 2003 19:47:36 +0100"
isosent="20031221184736"
name="jonmachari@netscape.net"
email="jonmachari@netscape.net"
subject="Mrs Mary Jones"
id="20031221184733.0E27614170@w3c2.w3.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



From: Mrs Mary Jones of Kuwait


RE: Donation for the less priveledged.


I am the above named person from Kuwait. I am married
to Dr. Harry Jones who worked with Kuwait Embassy in
Ivory Coast for nine years before he died in the year
2000.We were married for eleven years without a child.
He died after a brief illness that lasted for only
four days. Before his death we were both born again
christians. Since his death I decided not to re-marry
or get a child outside my matrimonial home which the
Bible is against. When my late husband was alive he
deposited the sum of $8.6Million (Eight Million six 
hundred  thousand U.S.Dollars) with a finance/security

company in Europe. 

Presently, this money is still with the Security
Company
and the management  just wrote me as the beneficiary
to come forward to receive the trunk box of money or
rather issue a letter of authorisation to somebody to 
receive it on my behalf if I can not come over.


Presently, I'm in a hospital where I have been
undergoing treatment for oesophageal cancer. I have
since lost my ability to talk and my doctors have told
me that I have only a few weeks to live. It is my last
wish to see this money distributed to victims of this
fire outbreak in Australia and other charity
organizations. Because relatives and friends have
plundered so much of my wealth since my  illness, I
cannot live with the agony of entrusting this huge
responsibility to any of them. 
Please,I beg you in the name of God to help me collect
the deposit and the interest accrued from the company
and distribute it accordingly.


I want a person that is God fearing that will use 
this money to fund churches,orphanages and widows 
propagating the word of God and to ensure that the 
house of God is maintained. The Bible made us to 
understand that Blessed is the hand that giveth. 
I took this decision because I don't have any child 
that will inherit this money and my husband relatives 
are not Christians and I don't want my husband's hard 
earned money to be misused by unbelievers. I don't 
want a situation where this money will be used in 
an ungodly manner.


Hence the reason for taking this bold decision. I am
not afraid of death hence I know where I am going. I
know that I am going to be in the bosom of the Lord.
Exodus 14 VS 14 says that the lord will fight my case
and I shall hold my peace. I don't need any telephone
communication in this regard because of my soundless
voice and presence of my husband's relatives around me
always. I don't want them to know about this
development.
With God all things are possible. As soon as I
receive your reply I shall give you the contact of the
Finance/ Security Company in Europe. I will also issue
you a letter of authority that will prove you as the
new beneficiary of this fund. I want you and the
church to always pray for me because the lord is my
shephard.


My happiness is that I lived a life of a worthy
Christian. however that wants to serve the Lord must
serve him in spirit and truth. Please always be
prayerful all through your life. Any delay in your
reply will give me room in sourcing for another person
for this same purpose.


Please assure me that you will act accordingly as I 
stated herein.


Hoping to hearing from you soon. 


N.B-PLEASE I WILL ADVICE YOU TO GIVE THE LAWYERS IN
CHARGE A CALL IN IMMEDIATELY, HE DOES EVERYTHING ON MY
BEHALF AND HE'S VERY UNDERSTANDING AND I BELIEVE HE
WILL LEAD YOU TO YOUR SUCCESS IN JESUS WITH THE
FOLLOWING DETAILS:


Names:                  Ben Smith Medube
Email:                  
Satellete phone:        +874 762921845



Remain blessed in the name of the Lord.


Yours in Christ,


Mrs Mary Jones  



