docno="lists-077-7199328"
received="Tue Aug 14 14:53:58 2001"
isoreceived="20010814185358"
sent="14 Aug 2001 14:53:11 -0400"
isosent="20010814185311"
name="Madeleine Rothberg"
email="madeleine_rothberg@wgbh.org"
subject="Beta testers wanted"
id="-1214321708madeleine_rothberg@wgbh.org"
charset="US-Ascii"
expires="-1"


To:<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>

Circulated on behalf of AOL.

Hello,

AOL is looking for Beta Testers to test new accessibility
features

America Online 6.0, released in October 2000, marked a number of significant
milestones in AOL's efforts to make our service accessible to all users. We
have spent the last several months building upon these accessibility
features and are now ready to beta test these improvements using AOL's most
super-charged testing, a "Focused Beta Test."

The Focused Beta Test for accessibility is a call to Assistive Technology
users to report on their AOL experience using Assistive Technologies such as
screen readers, screen magnifiers, voice recognition, speech output, and
alternatives to the standard keyboards and mouses.

To ensure the success of this effort, AOL would like to invite people who
use Assistive Technologies in their day-to-day computer use to be a part of this
evaluation. Individuals with this experience will play an important role in
providing feedback to AOL Product Developers so we can continue toward our
mission of building a more accessible AOL.

Here's how you (or any Assistive Technology user) can participate:

To become a Beta Tester you must first have an AOL account. If you are not
an AOL member, you may join using one of our free AOL 6.0 CDs, which may
offer you up to 700 free hours of usage. You can call to order a CD at
1-800-827-6364 or download the software at www.aol.com. You are under no
obligation to continue with the AOL service at the end of your trial period,
but must contact us if you wish to cancel in the future.

-- Once logged online to the AOL service, visit AOL Keyword: Beta to
register. Then, select the America Online 7.0 Beta link and click the "Focus
Tests" button to find the link to the "Accessibility Focus Test." (Note for
screen reader users: use the Tab key to navigate all beta application
screens also use the Spacebar instead of the Enter key to open windows.)

-- You will be asked to review and sign AOL's non-disclosure form and to
provide information on the type(s) of Assistive technology you use to access
the AOL service. Although you will have access to the Beta area immediately
upon completing the application, please allow us one business day to process
the application.

As an AOL Beta Tester you will receive instructions weekly regarding specific
products you can choose to test. You will be asked to provide feedback about
the products functionality, and to fill out a bug report if you find
something does not work. (Note to JAWS and Window Eyes users: to most
effectively use AOL with your screen reader, you will need to copy AOL
screenreader files into your screenreader directory. Information on how to
do this is available in the "Accessibilty Focus Test" area at AOL Keyword:
Beta.)

We are looking for testers for the Accessibility Focus Test who use Assistive
Technology in their day-to-day computer use. If you don't have this
experience, but have any family members or friends who are AOL members and
use Assistive Technology, tell them about the new tests available at AOL
Keyword: Beta.

AOL is committed to continuing to build more accessibility into America
Online and its products and service, and we thank you for your help and
support in this endeavor.

Thank you.
Debbie Fletter
America Online
Director, Accessibility
tel: 703-265-3469



