docno="lists-030-2338848"
received="Mon Nov 18 05:48:58 2002"
isoreceived="20021118104858"
sent="Mon, 18 Nov 2002 11:48:51 +0000"
isosent="20021118114851"
name="drkundala@email.com"
email="drkundala@email.com"
subject="PLEASE RESPOND TO THIS"
id="200211181048.gAIAloB04275@frink.w3.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"


To:smil-editors@w3.org

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL & URGENT 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
I am Dr Chris Kundala, a native of Cape Town in South Africa and I am an Executive Accountant with the South Africa Department of Mining 
& Natural Resources. First and foremost, I apologized using this medium to reach you for a transaction/business of this magnitude, but this is 
due to Confidentiality and prompt access reposed on this medium. Be informed that a member of the South Africa Export Promotion 
Council (SEPC) who was at the Government delegation to your country during a trade exhibition gave your enviable credentials/particulars to 

me. I have decided to seek a confidential co-operation with you in the execution of the deal described Hereunder for the benefit of all parties 
and hope you will keep it as a top secret because of the nature of this transaction. 
 
Within the Department of Mining & Natural Resources where I work as an Executive Accountant and with the cooperation of four other top 
officials, we have in our possession as overdue payment bills totaling Twenty one Million, Five Hundred Thousand US. Dollars 
($21,500,000.) which we want to transfer abroad with the assistance and cooperation of a foreign company/individual to receive the said 
fund on our behalf or a reliable foreign non-company account to receive such funds. More so, we are handicapped in the circumstances, as 
the South Africa Civil Service Code of Conduct does not allow us to operate offshore account hence your importance in the whole 
transaction. 

This amount $21.5m represents the balance of the total contract value executed on behalf of my Department by a foreign contracting firm, 
which we the officials over-invoiced deliberately. Though the actual contract cost have been paid to the original contractor, leaving the 
balance in the tune of the said amount which we have in principles gotten approval to remit by Key tested Telegraphic Transfer (K.T.T) to 
any foreign bank account you will provide by filing in an application through the Ministry of Justice here in South Africa for the transfer of 
rights and privileges of the former contractor to you. I have the authority of my partners involved to propose that should you be willing to 
assist us in the transaction, your share of the sum will be 30% of the $21.5 million, 60% for us and 10% for taxation and miscellaneous 
expenses. The business itself is 100% safe, on your part provided you treat it with utmost secrecy and confidentiality. Also your area of 
specialization is not a hindrance to the successful execution of this transaction. I have reposed my confidence in you and hope that you will 
not disappoint me. 

Endeavor to contact me immediately through my e- mail:(drkundala2@dr.com) to confirm whether or not you are interested in this deal. If you 

are not, it will enable me scout for another foreign partner to carry out this deal. I want to assure you that my partners and myself are in a 
position to make the payment of this claim possible provided you can give us a very strong Assurance and guarantee that our share will be 
secured and please, remember to treat this matter very confidential , because we will not comprehend with any form of exposure as we are 
still in active Government Service .Once again, remember that time is of great essence in this transaction.

 I wait in anticipation of your fullest co-operation. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
Dr Chris Kundala. 



