docno="lists-076-5267066"
received="Fri Sep  8 15:45:09 2000"
isoreceived="20000908194509"
sent="Fri, 08 Sep 2000 15:44:08 -0400"
isosent="20000908194408"
name="Jeffrey Pledger"
email="jpledger@mindspring.com"
subject="media: Able Kids Club Story Hour . . ."
id="4.1.20000908153805.00a56bf0@pop.mindspring.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org

I would appreciate it if this information could be posted on to other lists
where it has not ben viewed.  Thank you in advance.  

To enjoy the "Able Kids Club Story Hour", all that people need to do is
download the Real G2 player, which can be done for free from our web site at
www.abletv.net.  We suggest downloading the Real G2 version 8 basic (standard
edition) release of the software.  This download will take about 15 minutes
over a 56 KBS modem.  

After downloading the software, simply install it on your computer, then go to
www.abletv.net and click on the story hour link and enjoy the accessible
presentation.  Heres hoping that you, your friends, family & associates, but
most of all children will take advantage of this opportunity to view new
program format & content over the web.  Smiles and thanks.  

Jeffrey Pledger 
President, AbleTV.net 


tvwoRLDWIDE.COM                                                            
       PRESS RELEASE
 AbleTV.net Announces Streaming Video ?Story Hour? for Children with
Disabilities to be ?Webcapted? Live from TVWorldwide.com Studios 
First in a Series of Programs with Live Captioned Video Streaming Airs
Saturday, September 9, 10:00 AM, EDT at www.abletv.net from TVWorldwide.com
Studios in Chantilly, Va., sponsored by Family Adventures, Inc.
Hundreds Expected to Participate Interactively 
For Immediate Release
Friday, September 8, 2000
Contact:        Joseph Juras                              Jeff Pledger   
TV Worldwide.com                      able@abletv.net 
www.tvworldwide.com                www.abletv.net 
(703) 961-9250                             (301) 890-5944 
Chantilly, Va. - AbleTV.net, the first web-based global TV network for people
with disabilities, and a network affiliate of TVWorldwide.com, announced today
that it would begin producing a live twice-monthly program for children with
disabilities known as ?Able Kids Club Story Hour? that will feature
AbleTV.net?s captioned video streaming or ?webcapting? process to aid those
same disabled participants. Each ?Story Hour? will feature a prominent author
or entertainer reading their books or  performing to a live studio audience of
parents and children with the assistance of an American Sign Language (ASL)
interpreter. Saturday?s event, slated for 10:00 AM EDT, live, from the Internet
TV studios of TVWorldwide.com is sponsored by Family Adventures, Inc. a new
concept in ?edu-tainment? centers for children, with a special emphasis on
catering to the needs of children with disabilities. Pamela Duncan Edwards and
Henry Cole, an author/illustrator team noted for such renowned books as
Livingston Mouse, Honk and Roar, will be the show?s first guest hosts. Ms.
Edwards will be reading the story while Mr. Cole provides an audio description
of his illustrations for those children with visual impairments.

?We?ve got a great show that offers an alternative to the Saturday morning
cartoons on conventional television, ? commented Jeff Pledger, founder and
President of AbleTV.net who lost his eyesight sixteen years ago due to illness.
?It will be interesting to see the interaction between our guest hosts, the
children in the studio audience and those that participate interactively. It?s
the dawn of a new age for accessible multi-media over the web.? 

The event will be produced using live captioned video streaming with the
assistance of AbleTV.net?s strategic partner for live captioning, Alderson
Reporting, who in concert with TVWorldwide.com engineers worked with AbleTV.net
to develop the ?webcapting? process. This team of companies attracted national
attention recently when it was contracted by the Democratic National Committee
to provide webcapting services while streaming the 2000 Democratic Convention.
?We?re pleased to continue providing captioned streaming for this live event,
just like we?ve done for all our archived events, ? remarked Pledger. ?It?s an
example of how we employ accessibility technology for our own channel in
addition to productions for our clients.?

The webcast will be accessible at www.abletv.net , and interactive through
chat,
e-mail and phone direct to the studio (703 961-9250). The program will be
archived with the captioning for later viewing after the webcast at the same
event site link. 

About TVWorldwide.com and AbleTV.net
A full-service video streaming application service provider, TVWorldwide.com is
currently working with a variety of clients and strategic partners on the
latest in live and archived state-of-the-art video streaming content
applications.

The TVWorldwide.com network is an affiliation of community-based Internet TV
channels, each underwritten by a strategic partner, ?aimcasting? to targeted
b2b and professional special interest audiences worldwide. TVWorldwide.com has
worked with one of its first aimcast channels, AbleTV.net, to pioneer live and
archived video streaming with closed captioning and audio description to aid in
web site accessibility for the disabled. With this advance, AbleTV.net received
its charter sponsorship from Microsoft Corporation.  TVWorldwide.com recently
received first round financing from PSINet Ventures, Ltd., the wholly-owned
corporate unit of PSINet, Inc.

 
                                                                        ###



