docno="lists-080-14251085"
received="Wed Feb  4 13:24:33 2004"
isoreceived="20040204182433"
sent="Wed, 04 Feb 2004 12:23:13 -0600"
isosent="20040204182313"
name="Gregg Vanderheiden"
email="gv@trace.wisc.edu"
subject="FW: B of A Web press release mentioning w3c"
id="0HSK00LA0OEN7F@smtp4.doit.wisc.edu"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="B of A Web press release mentioning w3c"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org


 

immediate release: 

January 30, 2004 
 




Bank of America announces its continued commitment toward 
serving its visually impaired customers


 
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Bank of America Accessible BankingT announced today
enhancements made to the company's web site to help ensure greater access
choices for all customers. Following W3C Web Content Accessibility
Guidelines, the Bank of America web site offers increased accessibility for
users of assisted technology such as screen readers and those who access
financial information from web-enabled cell phones and personal digital
assistants (PDAs). 
 
"We are listening to all of our customers to learn the best ways of helping
them do business with us," said Annette Kellermann, Accessible Banking
program manager. "For example, we have made web site improvements as well as
implemented improvements to how we service customers with disabilities after
receiving feedback from one of our valued local customers who is visually
impaired.  We realize that financial independence is as much about access as
it is about money."  
 
After sharing an experience she had while trying to gain access to her safe
deposit box, Bank of America customer Doris Walker and her guardian, Andrea
Sloan, R.N., Esq., noted that more information and guidance was needed for
bank associates to better serve customers with vision impairments. Bank of
America responded by providing additional training for its associates in the
Northeast Washington, D.C., region.    
        
"We are committed to meeting our customers' needs and appreciate this issue
being brought to our attention," said Kellermann. "From Talking ATMs, to
Braille and large-print bank statements and raised line checks, we're doing
as much as we can to create a positive banking experience for our customers
with vision impairments."    
 
Bank of America is a leader in demonstrating a holistic approach to
providing products, programs and services for customers using the company's
disability and accessibility resources.  Bank of America customers can also
now utilize a variety of new online features including: 
 
 
More

Page 2
 
  

*Audio. Customers with special software can have the site read to
them. Customers also can skip from subject to subject to find the
information they need, rather than waiting for the audio to read through the
entire page.  

  

*Text enlargement options. Customers can increase the size of text
through their Internet browsers without degrading the overall appearance of
the site. 

  

*Online applications. Applying online makes it easier for customers
with disabilities to get what they need without leaving their homes or
offices. Disclosures and fees are included in Account Forms section. 

  

*Simplified navigation.  Finding information about accounts and
services is easier with a straightforward approach to organizing the site,
including an Information Center. Customers can get frequently requested
brochures and fact sheets as well as information about scholarships, career
opportunities or upcoming disability-related events. The ATM locator can now
default to Talking ATM searches for customers with vision impairments. 

 
One of the world's leading financial services companies, Bank of America is
committed to making banking work for customers and clients like it never has
before. Through innovative technologies and the ingenuity of its people,
Bank of America provides individuals, small businesses and commercial,
corporate and institutional clients across the United States and around the
world new and better ways to manage their financial lives. The company
enables customers to do their banking and investing whenever, wherever and
however they choose through the nation's largest financial services network,
including approximately 4,400 domestic offices and more than 13,200 ATMs, as
well as 31 international offices serving clients in more than 150 countries,
and an Internet Web site that provides online banking access to 6 million
active users, more than any other bank. The company's Web site is
www.bankofamerica.com <http://www.bankofamerica.com/> .
 
Customers wishing to obtain additional information about Talking ATMs can
visit www.bankofamerica.com/accessible banking. 

Reporters may contact:
Terri Bolling, Bank of America, 410.547.5869
terri.bolling@bankofamerica.com <mailto:name.name@bankofamerica.com> 
 
 

 
 


Lainey Feingold
Law Office of Elaine B. Feingold
1524 Scenic Avenue
Berkeley, CA 94708
(510) 548-5062
lfeingold1@earthlink.net 



