docno="lists-091-9047868"
received="Mon May  7 05:26:58 2001"
isoreceived="20010507092658"
sent="Mon, 7 May 2001 11:23:40 +0200"
isosent="20010507092340"
name="Emmanuelle Guti?rrez y Restrepo"
email="emmanuelle@teleline.es"
subject="RE: WAI Glossary New URL"
id="LPBBIBHMFONPBODMLDAOCEBFDGAA.emmanuelle@teleline.es"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="LPBBLABFJBGNHPLEJINNMEPFCHAA.ryladog&#64;earthlink.net"
expires="-1"

To:<ryladog@earthlink.net>,"3WC WAI X-TECH"<wai-xtech@w3.org>


Thank you, Katie, for not hating me too much!
I also hope to know you personally some day.
You can have my help, in all that I can.
Regards,
Emmanuelle

-----Mensaje original-----
De: wai-xtech-request@w3.org [mailto:wai-xtech-request@w3.org]En nombre
de Katie Haritos-Shea
Enviado el: domingo, 06 de mayo de 2001 19:21
Para: 3WC WAI X-TECH; Emmanuelle Guti?rrez y Restrepo
Asunto: RE: WAI Glossary New URL


Emmanuelle,
The only way anything truly decent gets accomplished is by having those
who care enough to "insist" upon
certain things.  Thank you for the resource, I need it. I thank you also for
your enthusiasm.  Even if I do hate you (kidding), I look forward to meeting
you one day...............Ciao..............Katie

-----Original Message-----
From: Emmanuelle Guti?rrez y Restrepo [mailto:emmanuelle@teleline.es]
Sent: Sunday, May 06, 2001 8:10 AM
To: William Loughborough; ryladog@earthlink.net; 3WC WAI X-TECH
Cc: Charles McCathieNevile; Wendy Chisholm
Subject: RE: WAI Glossary New URL


Hi all,

Katie, you have made a magnificent work with the page of the glossary.
Except as for the abbreviations and the acronyms, and I know that all you
will hate me but I have to insist in it.

As William has said, in the page that the abbreviated forms are picked up
they should appear correctly marked as much the abbreviations as the
acronyms (It would also be necessary to make it in all the pages of the
WAI).

I have edited a document that explains the difference among some and other,
to help to the developers to mark the documents appropiately.
The document analyzes the rules that make reference to these two elements
and the behavior of diverse user applications in front of them, explains
what they are, and how to differentiate them to be able to use them
correctly. Also, suggests some technology to develop to facilitate their use
and understanding.

As the terms abbreviation and acronym they have the same origin, so much in
English as in Spanish, I believe that the document can be useful also for
you.

To edit that document I appealed to the collaboration of screen readers'
users and the Real Spanish Academy of the Language (The maximum authority on
the use of the language).

http://www.sidar.org/emmy/abrvsacr.htm

The document is in Spanish (naturally) but has a connection to a service of
automatic translation. This service doesn't translate the end of the
document in which one gives a hint to differentiate the abbreviations of the
acr?nyms easily:
"Abbreviation: does Not read themselves the word that is created with the
form shortened, his meaning is translated, for example, when we find "etc."
not we read "e - t - c", we read "etcetera". Also, the abbreviation
"Austral." that can be utilized for an author to be referred to something
"Australian" or to something related to the "Australopitecos", although is
pronunciable in itself same, should be translated as indicate the author to
be able to understand the text that is reading himself, that is to say, upon
finding it we will pronounce "Australian" or "australopitecos" according to
us he indicate the author.
Acronym: the word he reads Himself that he is created with the form
shortened or well the acronyms that compose it, just as is written, for
example, "FBI" is not pronunciable, we read each one of the acronyms that
they compose the form shortened, we read it as "Efe - be - i" and, "ONU", if
is pronunciable, we read it as "onu"."

Maybe William and Charles, that understand Spanish a little, they can help
me in this crusade of defense of the acr?nyms.

Regards,
Emmanuelle

-----Mensaje original-----
De: wai-xtech-request@w3.org [mailto:wai-xtech-request@w3.org]En nombre
de William Loughborough
Enviado el: domingo, 06 de mayo de 2001 4:32
Para: ryladog@earthlink.net; 3WC WAI X-TECH
CC: Charles McCathieNevile; Wendy Chisholm
Asunto: Re: WAI Glossary New URL


At 09:54 PM 5/5/01 -0400, Katie Haritos-Shea wrote:
>Glossary.

I don't know if this has already been worried to death but...

If the glossary has "acronym" in it (which includes "abbreviation" in its
definition), it should have "abbreviation" in it - particularly since it's
the basis for a tag of some sort?

If this is the latest working draft, why is it dated 10 February?

--
Love.
                 ACCESSIBILITY IS RIGHT - NOT PRIVILEGE



