docno="lists-075-10648277"
received="Sat May 27 13:54:23 2000"
isoreceived="20000527175423"
sent="Sat, 27 May 2000 13:54:46 -0400"
isosent="20000527175446"
name="David Poehlman"
email="poehlman@clark.net"
subject="employment: web coordinator"
id="39300BE6.8D7795CD@clark.net"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To: wai-ig list<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>

 Web Coordinator

 Pact, an international development nonprofit organization based in
 Washington, DC seeks a Web Coordinator to lead the development of its Web
 strategies and sites from the ground up.  An excellent opportunity to make
 a difference with an organization doing good work around the world.
 *     Competitive salary and excellent benefits
 *     International travel possible
 Applications deadline: June 15th.  Check us out at: www.pactworld.org
 Contact Jeff Kwaterski at 202-466-5666, jkwaterski@pacthq.org

 About Us
 Pact is an international development nonprofit organization based in
 Washington, DC with programs in 18 countries worldwide.  Pact's mission is
 to work globally to reduce poverty by helping build strong communities
 that provide people with an opportunity to earn a dignified living, raise
 healthy families, and participate in democratic life.  Pact achieves this
 by strengthening the capacity of grassroots service delivery
 organizations, coalitions and networks and by assisting in forging
 linkages between government, business and the citizen sector to address
 urgent social and economic needs.

 Pact creates positive change around the world.  Just a few examples of our
 diverse programs include: empowering women through literacy training and
 micro-credit access in Nepal; strengthening the management capabilities of
 non-profit organizations combating the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Zimbabwe;
 developing the skills of independent media in Mongolia and facilitating
 the development of organizational networks for improving food security in
 Africa.  Pact Insurance provides quality insurance products to
 organizations working internationally.  Pact Publications publishes and
 distributes a variety of hard to find books and other educational
 resources for the international development community.

 Pact is committed to improving its ability to network information and
 knowledge resources worldwide, for Pact's staff as well as for client
 organizations.  We are developing a range of new services that assist
 nonprofit organizations to create Internet-supported learning networks
 that promote the development of staff skills and the strengthening of
 organizations.  Pact is continually exploring new ways to engage people
 and we realize that creative Web environments are central to our ability
 to successfully carry out our work and expand our global impact


 Job Description
 Pact's Web Coordinator will have the opportunity to make a true impact on
 an organization that does good work in the world.   You will be empowered
 to create real change through shaping Pact's Web strategies and
 environments from the ground up.  The Web Coordinator will take the lead
 role in designing and managing Pact's web sites, including our public
 Internet sites and corporate Intranet. This position will be a central
 part of a small web development team. The emphasis of the Web Coordinator
 position is placed on the skillful creation and coordination of Web sites
 that respond to the needs and interests of internal and external users.
 Beyond technical skills, Pact seeks a knowledge artist-someone who strives
 to creatively connect people and information in online environments. The
 Web Coordinator will coordinate contact with external graphic designers
 and information technology specialists, and may supervise interns and
 short-term employees as needed to complement the development of Pact's Web
 environments.  There may be occasional opportunities for international
 travel to provide Internet-related training and development at Pact
 program and client offices.

 Duties include:
 *     Lead the design, development, and maintenance of Pact's primary Web
 sites
 *     Lead the effort to create or implement web-applications to address
 Pact's global communications and knowledge-sharing issues
 *     Establish a content management plan to ensure timely updating and
 improvement of Pact sites
 *     Coordinate internal and external technical specialists required for
 complete Web-solutions implementation
 *     Coordinate internal and external technical specialists required for
 complete Web implementation
 *     Regularly provide analysis of web site traffic to relevant Pact
 staff, and use this information to suggest enhancements to the sites
 *     Coordinate content collection and development with people from
 across the organization  (programs, services and business development).
 The Web coordinator must be able to interface with a wide array of staff
 to gain a deep understanding of Pact's people, programs and work
 processes.
 *     Assist in producing Pact promotional materials and other items
 requiring desktop publishing
 *     Assist Pact to improve its use of e-commerce applications,
 specifically for Pact Publications
 *     Work with the Institutional Capacity Building Services group to
 explore the development of on-line learning (e-learning) environments


 Job Requirements
 *     Demonstrated ability to design, develop and administer web sites
 *     Demonstrated experience with HTML layout or editing tools such as
 Dreamweaver and Frontpage, as well as comprehensive knowledge of HTML at
 the tag level.  Knowledge of JavaScript, ASP, XML, web-server
 configuration and SQL databases a plus
 *     Working proficiency with desktop publishing and graphics software,
 particularly in a Windows environment, such as PageMaker, PhotoShop, and
 Illustrator.  Experience with print media and publishing, including
 graphic design, layout and production are a plus
 *     Excellent written, verbal and interpersonal communication skills.
 Ability to present concepts effectively with technical and non-technical
 staff of all backgrounds
 *     Demonstrate leadership, flexibility, reliability and self-motivation
 including the ability to: coordinate a wide variety of tasks; set and meet
 realistic goals; work independently and in a team environment; give
 appropriate attention to detail
 *     Experience with e-commerce applications a plus
 *     Interest in the organizational mission of Pact

 Contact
 Jeff Kwaterski
 Program Manager, Information and Knowledge Networking Services
 Pact, Inc.
 1901 Pennsylvania Ave. Suite 501
 Washington, DC  20006

 Contact phone: 202-466-5666
 Contact fax: 202-466-5669
 Contact email: jkwaterski@pacthq.org

 Please submit a resume and cover letter by June 15, 2000
 Pact offers a competitive salary commensurate with experience and an
 excellent benefits package
 Pact is an equal opportunity employer
 For more information on Pact visit our web site at www.pactworld.org

-- 
Hands-On Technolog(eye)s
ftp://poehlman.clark.net
http://poehlman.clark.net
mailto:poehlman@clark.net
voice 301-949-7599
end sig.



