docno="lists-004-6827557"
received="Thu Sep 25 23:02:17 2003"
isoreceived="20030926030217"
sent="Fri, 26 Sep 2003 04:58:47 +0200"
isosent="20030926025847"
name="OSOMA ZUMA"
email="osumauch1@netscape.net"
subject="Partnership"
id="20030926025831.EF2A4A07EE@frink.w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org


Dear Friend

You may be surprised to receive this letter from me since you do not 
know me personally. I am the first Son of the most popular black farmer 
in Zimbabwe who was murdered in the land dispute in my country. I got 
your contact through network online hence decided to write you. Before 
the death of my father, he took me to Johannesburg to deposit the sum of 
US$15 Million (fifteen million United States dollars), in one of the  
security company, as he foresaw the looming danger in Zimbabwe. This 
money was deposited in a Trunk box as gem stones to avoid much demurrage 
from the Security Company.

This amount was meant for the purchase of new machines and chemicals 
for the Farms and establishment of new farms in Swaziland. This land 
problem came when Zimbabwean President Mr. Robert Mugabe,  introduced a new 
Land Act Reform wholly affecting the rich white farmers and some few 
black farmers, and this resulted to the killing and mob action by 
Zimbabwean war veterans and some lunatics in the society. In fact a lot of 
people were killed because of this Land reform Act for which my father was 
one of the victims. it is against this background that I and my family 
fled Zimbabwe to South Africa for fear of our lives.
After which, I traveled to the Netherlands and I am currently staying 
in the Netherlands where i am seeking political asylum and more so have 
decided to transfer my father's money to a more reliable foreign 
account. Since the law of Europe prohibits a refugee (asylum seeker) to open 
any bank account or to be involved in any financial transaction 
throughout the territorial zone of European Union. As the eldest child of my 
father, I am saddled with the responsibility of seeking a genuine 
foreign account where this money could be transferred without the knowledge 
of my government who are bent on taking everything we have got.

The South African government seems to be playing along with them. I am 
faced with the dilemma of moving this amount of money out of my family 
name for fear of going through difficulty in future. Both countries 
have similar political history. I am seeking for a partner who I have to 
entrust my future and that of my family in his hands, I must let you 
know that this transaction is risk free. If you accept to assist me and my 
family, all I want you to do for me, is to make arrangements with the 
security company to clear the Consignment (funds) from their affiliate 
office here in the Netherlands as i have already given directives for 
the consignment to be brought to the Netherlands from South Africa.
But before then all modalities will have to be put in place like, 
change of ownership of the consignment. I have two options for you. Firstly 
you can choose to have certain percentage of the money for nominating 
your account for this transaction. Or you can go into partnership with 
me for the proper profitable investment of the money in your country. 
Whichever the option you want, feel free to notify me. 
If you do not prefer a partnership I am willing to give you 20% of the 
money while the remaining 80% will be for my investment in any of the 
country of your choice. Contact with my email- ( osumauchi@netscape.net
) while I implore you to maintain the absolute secrecy required in this 
transaction.
I await your immediate reply and God bless.

Best regards,
OSOMA ZUMA.

NOTE:
ON YOUR INABILITY TO HANDLE THIS TRANSACTION RESPOND TO ME AND INFORM 
ME SO I CAN LOOK FOR SOMEONE ELSE.
 

  



