docno="lists-016-13121468"
received="Tue Apr 20 14:13:10 2004"
isoreceived="20040420181310"
sent="Tue, 20 Apr 2004 10:56:38 0700"
isosent="20040420175638"
name="A. Vine"
email="andrea.vine@Sun.COM"
subject="Comments on Requirements doc"
id="40856456.5060206@sun.com"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To: I18n WSTF<public-i18n-ws@w3.org>



All,
Last review before re-chartering.  Some nitpicks, some real stuff.  You decide 
which is which :-P

--------------------------------
In the Introduction, re-punctuate "The W3C Internationalization Working Group, 
Web Services Task Force, was ... " to "The W3C Internationalization Working 
Group - Web Services Task Force, was ... " or leave the hyphen out entirely.

Need space after period here " ... Usage Scenarios document [WSUS].Some of ... " 
(might be an artifact of the HTML SS).

2.1 "A SOAP Feature (see [SOAP-Feature], Section 5) that provides the Web 
service provider international ... " => change "provides" to "gives" or some 
other similar, less-repetitious verb.  In fact, rewrite the whole paragraph, 
something like:

"Requirement: A SOAP Feature (see [SOAP-Feature], Section 5) that gives the Web 
service provider international contextual information, such as locale, language, 
or other culturally linked preferences.  The information may be related to the 
requester's preferences or to the data itself.  The provider can then use this 
information to tailor the language, invocation, or operation of services or the 
operation of the provider, for example, language selection in the generation of 
Faults."

This begs the question, should we provide more information in the Problem 
statement and shorten the requirement to just the actual requirement, e.g.

"Requirement: A SOAP Feature (see [SOAP-Feature], Section 5) that gives the Web 
service provider international contextual information, such as locale, language, 
or other culturally linked preferences.  The information may be related to the 
requester's preferences or to the data itself."

2.3  Another rewrite:

"Problem Statement: Service providers need a way to include information to 
indicate the behavior of a specific instance of a locale-affected Web service or 
to differentiate instances of the same service. For example, Binding A executes 
in French, Binding B executes in Japanese, and Binding C attempts to match the 
user's preferences."

"Requirement: A WSDL feature that allows a service to describe a "locale 
execution policy" for a service or a binding of a service, including any 
additional derived information of interest to users of the service.  This allows 
users the select the service and binding that most closely matches their needs 
or to tailor the operation of the service via header information. This feature 
must allow services to describe one or more languages or locales available for a 
specific service and enable a runtime user choice (language/locale negotiation) 
when that is appropriate. It must also provide a way to indicate that a specific 
service always executes using specific international settings or returns data in 
a specific language."

Again, philosophically, should we load up more info in the problem statement and 
reduce the size of the requirement statement, making it more succinct:

"Requirement: A WSDL feature that allows a service to describe a "locale 
execution policy" for a service or a binding of a service, including any 
additional derived information of interest to users of the service. This feature 
must allow services to describe one or more languages or locales available for a 
specific service and enable a runtime user choice (language/locale negotiation) 
when that is appropriate. It must also provide a way to indicate that a specific 
service always executes using specific international settings or returns data in 
a specific language."

2.4 Can we reduce the parentheses a bit?  I see the point in using them here, 
but using too many parenthetical comments makes for rough reading.

2.5 Should there be any mention of CLDR (or whatever it's called these days)?

2.6 Can we be more forceful and specific other than saying that the requirement 
is to develop requirements?

"Requirement: A Web service discovery mechanism which includes international 
information, such as descriptions in multiple languages and available locales 
for processing.  This includes non-W3C standards such as UDDI."

Or some such.

I can't think of anything to add to the doc at the moment.

Andrea
-- 
I have always wished that my computer would be as easy to use as my telephone. 
My wish has come true. I no longer know how to use my telephone.
-Bjarne Stroustrup, designer of C++ programming language (1950- )



