docno="lists-025-15477447"
received="Tue Mar 18 15:53:39 2003"
isoreceived="20030318205339"
sent="Tue, 18 Mar 2003 12:52:57 -0800"
isosent="20030318205257"
name="Assaf Arkin"
email="arkin@intalio.com"
subject="RE: Use case"
id="IGEJLEPAJBPHKACOOKHNOELODFAA.arkin@intalio.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="C1E0143CD365A445A4417083BF6F42CC07E6EDB0&#64;C1plenaexm07.commerceone.com"
expires="-1"

To:"Burdett, David"<david.burdett@commerceone.com>,<public-ws-chor@w3.org>


RE: Use caseI am talking purely about choreography between supplier role and
customer role, which is expressed in terms of service types, where one of
the service can be located on the customer side, but another service may be
located not on the customer side but acting as a proxy. Since the
choreography talks in terms or roles, responsibilities, etc it is location
agnostic.

arkin
  -----Original Message-----
  From: Burdett, David [mailto:david.burdett@commerceone.com]
  Sent: Tuesday, March 18, 2003 12:36 PM
  To: Assaf Arkin; public-ws-chor@w3.org
  Subject: RE: Use case


  Assaf

  I like your use case, but I think you are describing an orchestration
rather than a choreography. Is that correct?

  David

  -----Original Message-----
  From: Assaf Arkin [mailto:arkin@intalio.com]
  Sent: Tuesday, March 18, 2003 1:03 AM
  To: public-ws-chor@w3.org
  Subject: Use case




  I would like to submit a use case based on one of the implementations I
  have reviewed. This use case is interesting since it highlights how one
  would use Web services technologies like WSDL, WS-Policy, SAML and
  WS-Choreography even for interactions that are not SOAP enabled.



  Supply Acme Co. has an automated system for fulfilling orders. The
  supplier works with some customers that have an automated procurement
  system and both use SOAP to conduct transactions electronically.
  However, some customers have not automated their system. Acme Co. would
  like to conduct business with these customers and do so in an automated
  fashion.

  Acme Co. develops a Web-based front end system for these customers using
  HTTP and HTML technologies. Customers log into the system using their
  customer identifier and are able to place orders, track their status and
  print out invoices. Acme Co. also has a helpdesk which allows customers
  to conduct transactions offline. A customer may send an order by fax, or
  call to check the order status, and an Acme Co representative would use
  the Web-based front end system to perform an online operation on their
  behalf.

  Acme Co would like to have one definition for all transactions involving
  its customers regardless of technology. The business semantics are
  identical whether information is exchanged using SOAP, through the
  Web-based front-end or with the help of a representative. Acme Co
  realizes that reducing the number of business processes it needs to
  support would improve its efficiency.

  Acme Co choses the proxy approach. It defines a single choreography that
  would be used for all transactions with its customers. The choreography
  is expressed in the form of WSDL operations that are performed by its
  order fulfillment service and the customer's procurement service.
  Protocol bindings and service end-points are defined for those customers
  that use SOAP. The Web-based front end and helpdesk systems are defined
  as services that implement the role of a procurement system as defined
  by the customer process in that choreography. In this particular case it
  uses SOAP to communicate with fulfillment system.

  Although the Web-based front end is running in the same environment as
  the order fulfillment service, it is considered to be a customer
  service. When it exchanges messages it uses the security credentials
  given to the customer and not those of Acme Co to prevent one customer
  from learning about orders belonging to other customers.

  This distinction is important. From a technological perspective both
  Acme Co's and the customer's service run in the same domain of control.
  However, from a business perspective these are two different domains of
  controls, and customers are identified as different non-overlapping
  domains of control. Acme Co manages its policy with regards to each
  customer in a uniform manner regardless of which technology is used to
  conduct the transaction or how far SOAP messages have to travel.

  Once completed, Acme Co has:

  - A uniform representation of the choreography between its fulfillment
  service the the customer procurement service
  - A single business process to maintain
  - The means to support customers that do not have automated processes
  using the uniform model
  - A mechanism to support its security policies regardless of "location"
  of the customer service

  arkin

  --
  "Those who can, do; those who can't, make screenshots"

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Assaf Arkin                                          arkin@intalio.com
  Intalio Inc.                                           www.intalio.com
  The Business Process Management Company                 (650) 577 4700



