docno="lists-071-9032329"
received="Mon Sep  8 16:57:05 2003"
isoreceived="20030908205705"
sent="Mon, 08 Sep 2003 15:55:49 -0500"
isosent="20030908205549"
name="Gregg Vanderheiden"
email="gv@trace.wisc.edu"
subject="RE: Personae"
id="00d401c3764b$9596ab10$b4c46880@USD320002X"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="000001c3763a$2b2b61f0$0300000a&#64;bobthefrog"
expires="-1"

To:tcroucher@netalleynetworks.com,w3c-wai-gl@w3.org



Here is the text from Tom's PERSONNA PDF


Personae and Use Cases for WCAG 2.0

Guidelines and Techniques

The people who would want to use WCAG 2.0 fall neatly into
two main categories, professionals and non-professionals.
There is one important difference between pro and non-pro,
motivation. The vast majority of pros using WCAG 2.0 are
going to be doing it on a business case. This might be for
increased market share, or legal reasons but critically they
are doing it as long as it isn't too much work. The definition of
too much work of course depends on the company policy and
individual doing the work. Thus professionals using the
document are split into willing and unwilling. For example a
PwD (not necessarily impaired using the web) would be much
more willing to consider and spend time on accessibility due
to the empathy their own disability gives them.

Professionals
Willing Unwilling
Designer Designer
Programmer Programmer
Lawyer / Manager
(legal assessment)
Accessibility Professional
Non-professionals
Willing Unwilling
PwD looking for info
Web master wanting to be compliant



--
Marc
"I just want to make sure my design looks
ok, but I have to follow these standards too."
Marc spent a lot of work on this project
doing what he does best, graphic design. He
knows he has to make it accessible too but
his design comes first. He hasn't really
thought about the accessibility much, and
finds the documents rather too long. He might buy a book on the subject but
is more likely to buy a new game for his Play Station 2.

Age: 26
Company: Small web design company
Potential: Marc loves design and he could get used to making all his sites
with accessibility in mind. Making great looking sites isn't 9 to 5 for Marc
so
he really does want to do the best job he can. Right now though he thinks
accessibility just gets in the way.


--
Andy
"I have a deadline, and it's not like we have any
disabled users anyway. I looked at the server logs
I should know."
Andy is 'elite', a hardcore code monkey. He runs
the web servers, and codes on the web site. The
most technical guy in the company he takes the
lead with technical decisions. He thinks all this
accessibility stuff is just 'PC BS' it's not like
people with disabilities ever come onto his site.

Age: 34
Company: Medium sized food packaging company
Potential: Andy doesn't see the need for accessibility. His boss heard about
it
and told him to check it out. However since Andy is the only person who
knows how to do the web sites ultimately it's his decision. Unless he sees
the
need for it he isn't going to waste his time, after all this is just a 9
till 5 job.
He has better things to do at night with a Linux kernel.


--
Jessica
"I haven't got time to mess around. I need to
know where we stand, legally speaking."
Jessica likes power suits, power meetings and
power bars for power lunches. She is responsible
for risk management at her company. She wants
to know where her company would stand in a
lawsuit. She wants concise information that she
can verify with the team responsible for the
company intranet and web sites.

Age: 28
Company: Large enterprise industrial company
Potential: Jessica is keen to see that her company is covered. She would
probably be happy with the minimum needed to cover her bases. However
she could easily be persuaded to push the web development team that little
bit further to achieve that extra level of compliance, and legal safety.



--
Mary
"It would be nice to know what I can expect
from web sites. I know they are supposed to
help me but I don't know how exactly."
Mary has a motor neuron condition which
impairs her movement. Most of her friends
say 'Mary just walks a little funny' but she
also has trouble with a mouse. Mary would
love to know what web sites are supposed to
be doing for her but she isn't overly technical.

Age: 19
Company: Mary is doing a Degree at college
Potential: If Mary knew what was a reasonable amount of accessibility for
web sites to offer she might write a few letters when web sites didn't meet
those standards. She would probably complain to the faculty that their
supposedly accessible web site didn't really help her, and these people at
the
W3C said it wouldn't be to hard to fix.





-----Original Message-----
From: w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org [mailto:w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org] On Behalf
Of Tom Croucher
Sent: Monday, September 08, 2003 1:51 PM
To: w3c-wai-gl@w3.org
Subject: Personae

Hi guys, after last weeks extensive discussion about the gateway docs. I
made a little something for the use cases. I am not sure how accessible
this pdf is. If I have managed to bork it will someone please let me
know and I will attempt to fix it.


Tom



