docno="lists-108-7732801"
received="Fri Mar 19 10:06:38 2004"
isoreceived="20040319150638"
sent="Fri, 19 Mar 2004 10:02:12 -0500"
isosent="20040319150212"
name="Hernly, Harold APD/DTS"
email="HAROLD.HERNLY@hqda.army.mil"
subject="RE: Adobe Forms Designer"
id="3A02078E718A3A4995A047C16D66BF55404D47@host-141-116-73-201.ptr.hqda.pentagon.mil"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="Adobe Forms Designer"
expires="-1"


To:"'DuCharme, Bob (LNG-CHO)'"<bob.ducharme@lexisnexis.com>,www-forms@w3.org

Bob...

I have seen demos of this software several times. As far as I can tell, it
is Adobe's next generation form design product. It has evolved greatly from
the Accellio product they bought. It is a tool for developing dynamic PDF
forms. You can do XML data streams with this software now. I do not know yet
whether or not this software could be used with XForms. 



----------------------------------------------------------
Best,

Lee Hernly
Contractor
Dynamic Technology Systems, Inc  i/s/o SSD
Taylor Building
Rm. 3E40
http://www.dts-inc.com
harold.hernly@us.army.mil



-----Original Message-----
From: DuCharme, Bob (LNG-CHO) [mailto:bob.ducharme@lexisnexis.com]
Sent: Tuesday, March 16, 2004 10:12 AM
To: www-forms@w3.org
Subject: Adobe Forms Designer



Has anyone seen much of this, especially in a forum that was using or
considering the use of XForms? 

Bob

-----Original Message-----
From: Peter Kacandes [mailto:pkacande@adobe.com]
Sent: Monday, March 15, 2004 1:14 PM
To: announce@lists.oasis-open.org
Subject: [announce] Adobe Launches Public Beta of New XML/PDF Form
Design Software



Adobe Launches Public Beta of New XML/PDF Form Design Software

Adobe Designer Delivers Powerful Capabilities for Easy Creation and
Deployment of Intelligent Documents in PDF
SAN JOSE, Calif., - March 8, 2004 - Adobe Systems Incorporated (NASDAQ:
ADBE) today announced the public beta availability of Adobe? Designer, a new
point-and-click graphical XML form design tool for designing and deploying
intelligent forms in Adobe PDF or HTML. The software enables organizations
to build solutions using Adobe document services for automating form-based
workflows and accelerating access to business-critical information.

"Adobe Designer supports organizations as they migrate to Web services and
XML," said Robert Glushko, Ph.D. with the School of Information Management
and Systems, University of California, Berkeley. "Creating new data
connections with XML is straightforward and intuitive because the software
lets you drag and drop form elements based on an XML schema. With Designer,
even relatively novice users can create interactive, professional quality
forms and connect them to backend systems."

Adobe Designer is part of Adobe's Intelligent Document Platform for
generating, collaborating, processing and securing intelligent documents in
the enterprise. The software provides all the capabilities needed to design
forms with precision, including the ability to import information from
existing formats, and define business logic on the form template. Developers
can easily integrate form data with core enterprise systems via XML, OLEDB
and web services. Additionally, Adobe Designer allows users to design forms
that can be used with digital signature technologies for facilitating secure
electronic transactions.

The software is a desktop design tool that creates XML form templates for
publishing to multiple formats, or users can import and add intelligence to
existing form templates from PDF or Microsoft Word. Adobe Designer forms
dynamically resize according to data input and only present the relevant
form fields to the end user based on that input. For example, a single
person applying for a mortgage will only be presented with form fields
relevant to his or her status. These intelligent forms are accessed via a
web browser, Adobe Acrobat? or the ubiquitous Adobe Reader?.

"To fully realize their investment in enterprise applications, organizations
must extend the reach of these applications with processes that enable the
secure capture, exchange and track information," said Ivan Koon, senior vice
president of the Intelligent Document Business Unit at Adobe. "To meet these
challenges, Adobe Designer offers a dynamic interface to end users that
utilizes XML to create flexible, intelligent documents, while enabling
interactive data capture and business collaboration via PDF for efficient,
reliable, secure information exchange."

When combined with other document services from Adobe, the Adobe Designer
enables organizations to extend core systems and automate business processes
easily with internal and external users. From internal forms such as expense
reports and purchase requisitions, to external forms such as applications
and claims, Adobe's solutions enable enterprises to harness the power of PDF
and XML for integrating intelligent documents into the IT environment.

The Adobe Designer beta for Microsoft Windows? operating system is available
now at www.adobe.com/designerbeta. Pricing will be announced with product
availability in mid 2004.

About Adobe Systems Incorporated
Adobe helps people and businesses communicate better through its
world-leading digital imaging, design and document technology platforms for
consumers, creative professionals and enterprises. Adobe's revenue in the
last fiscal year exceeded $1 billion. For more information about Adobe,
visit www.adobe.com.

###

? 2004 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe, the Adobe
logo, Acrobat and Reader are either registered trademarks or trademarks of
Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries.
Microsoft and Windows are either trademarks or registered trademarks of
Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. All other
trademarks are the property of their respective owners.



To unsubscribe from this mailing list (and be removed from the roster of the
OASIS TC), go to
http://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/announce/members/leave_workgrou
p.php.



