docno="lists-004-1735572"
received="Sat Mar  8 18:09:57 2003"
isoreceived="20030308230957"
sent="Sun, 09 Mar 2003 00:09:31"
isosent="20030309050931"
name="ROBERT TANGURA"
email="tangurarobert@netscape.net"
subject="ROBERT"
id="200303082309.h28N9urB026613@tux.w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:ietf-charsets@w3.org


FROM: ROBERT TRANGURA


Dear friend,

This may come to you as a surprised to receive this letter from me since you do not know me personally. The purpose of my introduction is that I am Robert Tangura, the first son of Henry Tangura one of the most popular black farmer in Zimbabwe who was recently murdered in the land dispute in my country. I got your contact through network online hence decided to write you.

Before the death of my father, he had taken me to Johannesburg to deposit the sum of USD$10 million (Ten million United States dollars), in one of the private security company, as he foresaw the looming danger in Zimbabwe  this money was deposited in a box as gem stones to avoid much demurrage from security company. This amount was meant for the purchase of new machines and chemicals for the Farms and establishment of new farmlands.

This land problem came when Zimbabwean President Mr. Robert Mugabe introduced a new Land Act Reform wholly affecting the rich white farmers and some few black farmers, and this resulted to the killing and mob action by Zimbabwean war veterans and some lunatics in the society. In fact a lot of people were killed because of this Land reform Act for which my father was one of the victims.

It is against this background that, I and my family fled Zimbabwe for fear of our lives and are currently staying in the Netherlands where we are seeking political asylum and more so have decided to transfer my father?s money to a more reliable foreign account. since the law of Netherlands prohibits a refugee (asylum seeker) to open any bank account or to be involved in any financial transaction throughout the territorial zone of Netherlands, As the eldest son of my father, I am saddled with the responsibility of seeking a genuine foreign account where this money could be transferred without the knowledge of my government who are bent on taking everything we have got. The South African government seems to be playing along with them. 

I am faced with the dilemma of moving this amount of money out of South Africa for fear of going through the same experience in future, both countries have similar political history. As a businessman,I am seeking for a partner who I have to entrust my future and that of my family in his hands, I must let you know that this transaction is risk free. If you accept to assist me and my family, all I want you to do for me, is to make an arrangements with the security company to clear the consignment(funds) from their affiliate office here in the Netherlands as i have already given directives for the consignment to be brought to the Netherlands from South Africa .But before then all modalities will have to be put in place like change of ownership to the consignment and more importantly this money I intend to use for investment. 

I have two options for you. Firstly you can choose to have certain percentage of the money for nominating your account for this transaction. Or you can go into partnership with me for the proper profitable investment of the money in your country. Whichever the option you want, feel free to notify me. I have also set  outside  5% of this money for all kinds of expenses incurred in the process of this transaction. If you do not prefer a partnership I am willing to give you 10% of the money while the remaining 85% will be for my investment in your country. Contact me with the above E-mail address, while I implore you to maintain the absolute secrecy required in this transaction. 


Thanks, GOD BLESS 

Mr  Robert Tangura



