docno="lists-028-0015412"
received="Wed May 12 04:03:58 2004"
isoreceived="20040512080358"
sent="Tue, 11 May 2004 18:39:45 +0200"
isosent="20040511163945"
name="Ilya Zaihrayeu"
email="ilya@dit.unitn.it"
subject="CFP: International Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Knowledge Management (P2PKM)"
id="200405111643.i4BGhwlS003497@dit.unitn.it"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:"'Ilya Zaihrayev'"<ilya.zaihrayeu@dit.unitn.it>


[Apologies if you receive multiple copies of this announcement]

**** CALL FOR PAPERS *****

International Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Knowledge Management (P2PKM)
-- www.p2pkm.org --
August 22 (tentative), 2004 - Boston, Massachusetts, USA

Collocated with MobiQuitous 2004 (www.mobiquitous.org)


Scope of workshop
-----------------

Peer-to-Peer (P2P) computing has received significant attention from the
side of research labs and academia, largely due to the popularity of
commercialized P2P file sharing applications such as Napster, Morpheus and
KaZaa. In the P2P model, peers exchange data and/or services in completely
decentralized distributed manner. Peers are autonomous, and are free to
choose what other peers to interact with, and, in this point-to-point
interaction, peers possess equal functional capabilities.

On the other hand, Knowledge Management (KM) is increasingly viewed as a
core capacity in order to compete in the modern social and economic
environment. Researchers and practitioners agree that those intellectual
assets that are embedded in working practices, social relationships, and
technological artefacts constitute the only source of value that can sustain
long term differentiation, quality of services, innovation, and
adaptability. Nonetheless, even due to a debatable success of current KM
implementations, still unclear is how such matter should be managed in
highly complex, distributed, and heterogeneous settings.

In the last couple of years, P2P and KM have followed different but
converging paths. In fact, P2P technologies have left their initial
"computational", "anarchoyd", and spontaneous fashion to embrace more
service level domains and business settings. On the other hand, KM is
questioning its centralized assumption based on the implicit belief that
knowledge is managed successfully when it can be standardized and
controlled. In this sense, it seems that while P2P is looking for value
added domains to better exploit its technological potential, KM is looking
for a technological paradigm more able to fit an emerging distributed
organization of knowledge.

The convergence of P2P and KM creates new challenges for researchers to
address: new methodologies to model, design, and deploy distributed KM
solutions; theories and algorithms to represent the social and semantic
dimensions of a knowledge network; mechanisms to cope with the dynamic
autonomous nature of P2P and to provide means to support emergent network
self-organization. New technologies should be provided in order to support
full operational functioning of P2P KM systems, ensuring high extensibility
of the solutions along several dimensions, such as scalability in the number
of peers, size and kind of supported knowledge bases, level of heterogeneity
in knowledge representation, robustness, etc. Various technologies can
contribute to P2P KM solutions: Semantic Web, with new instruments for
knowledge representation, in particular ontologies, as well as with
(totally) mechanized means for locating, retrieving and processing of data;
database technology, with formal seman!
 tics for P2P data sharing; multi agent technology, with innovation
solutions of agent-mediated knowledge management; and so on.

The P2PKM workshop is intended to serve as an active forum for researchers
and practitioners, where they will have the possibility to exchange and
discuss research results, novel ideas and experiences, laying in the
intersection of the P2P, KM and Semantic Web, database, multi agent, as well
as other related technologies. It aims at provoking a discussion around the
hypothesis of convergence of P2P and KM areas, and, in particular, at
exploring synergies among those that need to provide a distributed
technological answer to the distributed management of knowledge, and those
that are interested in exploring the substantial implications of the P2P
paradigm on important aspects of organizational life such as KM. 

Topics of interest include but are not restricted to:
-----------------------------------------------------

    * Distributed Knowledge Management business cases and experiences;
    * P2P to support (virtual) communities of practice and interest
networks;
    * Organizational impacts of P2P technologies, and social adoption of
distributed technologies;
    * Methodologies to analyse, design and deploy distributed KM solutions;
    * Social models to design and support knowledge intensive collaborative
processes in a P2P environment;
    * Data models and distributed query languages;
    * Meta-data representation and management (e.g., semantic-based
coordination mechanisms, use of ontologies in P2P KM systems, etc.);
    * Algorithms to discover distributed knowledge among interacting peers;
    * Protocols, algorithms and techniques to support semantic
interoperability;
    * Trust and reputation as means to support knowledge acquisition;
    * Semantic Web and P2P KM systems;
    * Agent-mediated knowledge management;
    * P2P KM system architectures, infrastructure and middleware;
    * Experience with deployed systems, performance evaluation and
benchmarking;

Important dates
---------------

Submission deadline: June 30th, 2004
Acceptance notification: July 16th, 2004 

Camera ready due: August 2nd, 2004
Workshop date: August 22nd (tentative), 2004


Submission instructions
-----------------------

We invite the submission of high quality technical papers. The submitted
papers should be formatted as close as possible to the Springer LNCS style
and must not exceed  12 pages including figures and references. Interested
authors should send their papers to Ilya Zaihrayeu (ilya@dit.unitn.it)
within the submission deadline. PDF format is  preferred, but other formats
(PS, DOC) are also acceptable. Accepted papers will be published in the CEUR
workshop electronic proceedings, and hardcopies of the  proceedings will be
handed out at the workshop. At least one author of each accepted paper must
attend the workshop to present their work.


Workshop Co-Chairs
------------------

   Ilya Zaihrayeu
   University of Trento, Italy
   email: ilya@dit.unitn.it

   Matteo Bonifacio
   ITC-Irst, Italy
   email: bonifacio@itc.it  


Program Committee
-----------------

    * Matteo Bonifacio, ITC-Irst, Italy
    * Stefan Decker, Information Sciences Institute at the University of
Southern California
    * Dieter Fensel, University of Innsbruck, Austria
    * Enrico Franconi, Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, Italy
    * Chiara Ghidini, ITC-Irst, Italy
    * Fausto Giunchiglia, University of Trento, Italy
    * Manfred Hauswirth, EPFL, Switzerland
    * Matthias Klusch, DFKI, Germany
    * Manolis Koubarakis, Technical University of Crete, Greece
    * Gabriel Kuper, University of Trento, Italy
    * Stefanie Lindstaedt, Austria's Competence Center for Knowledge
Management
    * Deborah L. McGuinness, Stanford University, USA
    * Alberto Montresor, University of Bologna, Italy
    * Wolfgang Nejdl, University of Hannover and Learning lab Lower Saxony,
Germany
    * Munindar P. Singh, North Carolina State University, USA
    * Mike Papazoglou, Tilburg University, Netherlands
    * Riccardo Rosati, Universit? di Roma "La Sapienza", Italy
    * Wee Sion NG, National University of Singapore
    * Steffen Staab, University of Karlsruhe, Germany
    * Igor Tatarinov, University of Washington, USA
    * Bernard Traversat, SUN Microsystems, USA


Futher Information
------------------

For further information, please send an e-mail to: ilya@dit.unitn.it or
visit: 

http://www.p2pkm.org/



