docno="lists-081-9240162"
received="Thu Oct 17 05:38:57 2002"
isoreceived="20021017093857"
sent="Thu, 17 Oct 2002 11:37:42 +0200"
isosent="20021017093742"
name="CHIEF MUDY ESE"
email="mudy.ese@caramail.com"
subject="INVESTMENT PROPOSAL"
id="200210170937.g9H9bZB11877@frink.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-rc@w3.org


  3, Awolowo Way,
                                     Ikeja, Lagos.

                            Security Tele/Fax: 234-1-7592911
 Attention: The President/CEO

 Dear Sir,
     "Quest to Invest in Real Estate Properties/Imports"

 I am CHIEF MUDY ESE. former special adviser on Crude
Petroleum matters to the late Head of State of Government of Nigeria
Gen. Sani abacha. Because of my strategic position in the former
Government and also being a close confidant of the late Head of
State, I was able to acquire personally the sum of $21,500,000.00 USD
(Twenty-One Million Five Hundred United States Dollars only)
presently lodged in a Security Deposit in Europe. I made this money
largely through "CONSULTANCY FEE" and Good Faith Fees"
paid by foreign Oil companies prior to Allocation of Deep Water Oil
Blocs and other Lifting/prospecting Right (Nigeria is the 6th largest
Producer/Exporter of Crude Petroleum in the World.

As you are probably aware of the fact that Nigeria is prone to
Military coups and the resultant Political/Economic Instability has
fueled hyper Inflation, amongst other problems. I have therefore
resolved to invest my money abroad, preferable in Real Estate
Properties and Importation of Goods from your country for safety and
optimum returns on Investment.

 However the, present civillian administration of president
Olusegun Obasanjo has placed a restriction of movement on every
member of cabinet of the past millitary government. This is as a
result of the Justice Oputa panel of inquiry slated to investigate
most of the atrocities perpetrated by the late former head of state.
This means that I cannot travel out now till the panel conclude its
investigations which only god knows when that would be.
Straight transfer of this money into a bank abroad will present
two major problems one, the tax incidence will be too high, as much
as 60% of this money will go up in Taxes, Levies, Penalties etc. as a
result of Government deliberate restrictions on flight of capital
Abroad.

However arrangement have been put in place for you to receive
this money from a trust worthy security deposit company in Europe.As
soon as you indicate your interest.  I will send to you the security
 Code number, certificate of deposit number and airway bill
number of the Deposit that will serve as the onus of proof to enable
you claim the Money, which is tagged, Diplomatic Luggage.


 All I now need is an honest partner who can receive the money on
my behalf and help me to invest as aforementioned.

 There is absolutely no risk involved in this transaction, as the
money will be delivered to you in United States Dollars Bills.

 If you are interested in assisting me, please send to me by
email immediately your preferred contact address where you can be
reached at any time, upon receipt of the money, you are to lodge this
money in a bank account and contact me for necessary arrangements for
the investment of the funds. For your help and assistance in this
deal, you will be entitled to 30% of this money in cash or Equity if
you wish to join the proposed company.

 Finally you are to please urgently send to me through email or
fax the required contact address that include your telephone and fax
number).
So that I can instruct the West side Deposit Company to go ahead
with the transfer to you.

 Please contact me immediately so that I can give you further
briefing.

 Best regards

CHIEF MUDY ESE



