docno="lists-102-14430629"
received="Fri Mar  5 01:20:30 1999"
isoreceived="19990305062030"
sent="Fri, 05 Mar 1999 01:14:51 -0500"
isosent="19990305061451"
name="Arkin"
email="arkin@trendline.co.il"
subject="Announce: OpenXML publicly available"
id="36DF765B.DA1EB3DF@trendline.co.il"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="36DF121B.6B3D2657&#64;trendline.co.il"
expires="-1"


To:"'DOM list'"<www-dom@w3.org>

OPENXML PUBLICLY AVAILABLE ? OPEN SOURCE JAVA/XML APPLICATION FRAMEWORK

OpenXML provides first open source, commercial-grade framework for
Java/XML
applications


March 5, 1999 -- OpenXML.org announces general availability of OpenXML,
an
open source, pure Java, commercial-grade, fully featured framework for
XML-based applications. OpenXML covers the entire cycle of XML documents
production, processing and delivery for dynamic content publishing and
application to application communication.

OpenXML is distributed under an open source license that encourages
distribution, integration and modifications, and is supportive of both
open
source and commercial applications. Collaborative work and volunteer
contribution is coordinated through the OpenXML.org Web site.


OpenXML Technology

The OpenXML parser is capable of reading XML version 1.0, DTD and HTML
4.0
documents, offering a wide range of options to suit different needs. In
performance, OpenXML is comparable to alternative parsers from IBM and
Sun.

Informative error reporting assists in correcting non-valid documents,
while error tolerance and correction enables OpenXML to process manually
produced documents. Flexibility is important for both application to
application and human to machine information exchange.

OpenXML provides in-memory document caching for improved performance,
and
XCatalog support for mapping remote documents to local copies. Supported
document sources include network, file system, ClassLoader and database
servers.

OpenXML conforms to the Level 1 specification of the Document Object
Model,
as defined by the World Wide Web Consortium. Adherence to standard APIs
makes for seamless integration into existing applications and
portability
across a variety of platforms.

OpenXML provides efficient mechanisms for document generation,
processing
and delivery. The open Processor API can accommodate generic and
task-specific processor engines. Planned processor engines include
document
formatting (XSL), query and filtering (XQL) and scripting logic
(EMCAScript). OpenXML was designed to integrate with Java Servlets for
XML/HTML content publishing and Web-based application development.

OpenXML provides a number of benefits to the developer community:

   * Ideal for XML and HTML based applications, dynamic content
publishing,
     and application to application communication
   * Full document life cycle support from generation to processing to
     delivery
   * Fast and efficient parser technology with informative error
reporting,
     error tolerance and in-memory document caching
   * Optimized for multi-user server-side applications
   * Pure Java implementation and standard conformation for maximum
     portability
   * Open source development model encourages contribution and
unrestricted
     use


Immediate Availability

OpenXML is available for immediate download from the OpenXML.org Web
site.
OpenXML can run on any platform and operating system that supports Java
1.1
or Java 2. The open source license encourages distribution, integration
and
modification and accepts both open source and commercial applications.
For
download and to learn more about OpenXML visit the OpenXML.org Web site
at
http://www.openxml.org.


                                   # # #

Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc. All other names, brands or
products may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective
owners.



