docno="lists-069-16378154"
received="Fri Jan 18 01:49:10 2002"
isoreceived="20020118064910"
sent="Fri, 18 Jan 2002 08:43:42 -0800"
isosent="20020118164342"
name="Lisa Seeman"
email="seeman@netvision.net.il"
subject="3.3 action item"
id="002f01c1a03f$4a318e30$2a90003e@dev1"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:"_W3C-WAI Web Content Access. Guidelines List"<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


OK - Checkpoint 3.3 Write as clearly and simply as is appropriate for the
content.

 I have split up previous work into four  categories.
-Brake up the text,
-chouse the right words
-highlight
-provide support.

I think that the below are testable, even though you can probably fulfill
all the test and provide an unintelligible page (if you put your mind to
it). That is probably true to some extent in lots of Checkpoints.




>

1 BRAKE UP
  Use a two-step "select and confirm" to reduce accidental selections,
 especially for critical functions.

  Structure tasks, cue sequences, and provide step-by-step instructions.



One idea per paragraph: Test: replace each paragraph with a one idea
 sentence. (the first sentence, or a rewrite of that) Does the document
make
 sense still?


 first sentence must match the (single) idea expressed in a paragraph.
(success as above)


 Use short sentences . Short sentences success criteria proposal: sentences
contain no more
 than one relative clause at least for instructions.


 Instructions should be step by step, and include visual references. Success
Criteria: could you represent the instruction as a drawing - flow chart dry
run.

 It should be possible to choose the detailed or the shortened
instructions

 Use markup to identify flow of instructions




provide flow of ideas in a summary, diagram or page map
Success Criteria: It is possible to map the document to pieces that
are in the summary (exec summary, or heading outline, or ...)



Automate complex sequences like system backup, application launch, and user
 registration.


Avoid functions that require simultaneous actions to activate or operate.

Use goal/action structure for menu prompts.




2 choose  WORDS

2.1 metaphorical language
avoiding metaphorical language which may be understood literally by people
 with autism.  If you do use metaphor or irony or another style which may be
 misunderstood, consider adding an explanatory note

success criterion: non-literal text is identified and a literal
 translation is identified
test by translating to another language and re- translate. does it make
sense?
 technique for 3: Use of Ruby.

 <p> The Prime minister is wanting to
 <ruby>
   <rb>have his cake and eat it too</rb> <!-- the metaphorical
expression -->
   <rt class="http://wordnet.org/literally">get the benefit of seeming
 inflexible now, but be able to change
       his mind again later</rt>
    <!-- the rt element can be rendered alongside, or instead of, the rb
 content, according to the styling -->
 </ruby> in this instance.</p>

2.2 meaningful words
Use highly descriptive words as hypertext anchors. Avoid the "click here" s
 syndrome.

Headings should be unique, and meaningful on their own ( related to the
requirement that links should make sense
on their own)

 Jargon that is expected should be linked to a glossary / explanation

 Use the jargon. This has to be linked to (depends on) 5: and should be
 linked to 4:

 I would add that I do not think it ok to restrict translations of jargon
and
 annotations of abbreviations to the fist occurrence. I can not remember
 annotations that I have used since high school, and am still dependent on
 the spell checker for ect/etc ....(etc....)

 Linking to a glossary is not as cool as providing the information in a
 ruby so it can be shown/hidden fast.

( Technique: Use Ruby Technique: Use a rel="glossary" link.)

 It should be possible to identify a graphic representation of an
 instruction. i.e. you can draw the picture.

 CMN thinks that 10: is also useful for being able to translate to sign
language.


 Use active rather than passive expressions - this doesn't have massive
 support.



2.3 Easily understood words
Use short words in common vocabulary.
 Success criterion: Substituting common words for uncommon words
(without
 significantly expanding the size) does not change the meaning. Note that
 this requires a dictionary that marks the "difficulty" of a word.


  Provide concrete rather than abstract indicators. Use absolute reference
 controls rather than relative ones.

Grammar-based success criteria are language dependent

3 HIGHLIGHT

Highlight key information  Success criterion:  when the highlighted text
stands alone does it summarize the key ideas.

provide easily scanable layout such as bullets for multiple points. Success
criterion:  can comas be replaced by bullet points? can paragraph marks be
replaces by bullet points?

use goal/action structure for menu prompts,


4 AND provide support and help

Support "wizards" which offer help, simplify configuration, and assist with
 sequences.

  Provide defaults and make it easy to re-establish them.

 Provide calculation assistance, or reduce the need to calculate.Success
 criteria

  Provide definite feedback cues: visual, audio, and/or tactile

 provide a mode with minimum functionality. - Eliminate or hide what isn't
 essential.


Use prompts for procedures and support decision making.

 Provide for consistent formatting that doesn't put people off.

pictorial representation should be provided of each instruction, (if
you
 can not do it in one picture, it is time to split up the instructions)

 diagrammatic representation should be provided for relationships and
flow
 of ideas.
 Supply a page map/ structural diagrams of the flow of concepts through a
 document.

 for long documents the subject could be shown at the center, with the
 various ideas
radiating outwards. Branches and sub-branches indicate the hierarchical
 relationships between ideas, and visual cues are used to associate ideas
with easily recalled symbols


 success criteria: can you map all the ideas in the document to the page
map?



