docno="lists-008-11315606"
received="Wed Oct 30 09:41:20 2002"
isoreceived="20021030144120"
sent="Wed, 30 Oct 2002 15:41:03"
isosent="20021030204103"
name="daguei@netscape.net"
email="daguei@netscape.net"
subject="PERSONAL."
id="200210301441.JAA21208@tux.w3.org"
charset="iso-88591"
expires="1"


To:ietf-discuss@w3.org


Dear Prospective Partner,

Accept my compliments. However strange or surprising this contact might seem to you, I ask that you give due consideration to its importance, as we both stand to benefit immensely. Though we have not met or know each other, this is a criteria I have used to select you, as I wish to cut off all ties with my people for security and safety reasons.

I am a step son and personal aide to the Late General Robert Guei of blessed memory, former President of Cote d'Ivoire (Ivory Coast).

You may not be conversant with the present situation in my country, which has gradually degenerated into a civil war. On September 19, 2002, My Dad led a failed coup d'etat against President Laurent Gbagbo, in a bid to restore political stability in my country. Unfortunately, he was killed. After my Dad's death, there was confusion and power struggle in our camp; this has led to us losing half our strength. Although we still control the north and Central regions of the country. It is now a question of who will give in between us (now referred to as ?rebels?) and Gbagbo?s government. There seem to be no chance for peace, as several attempts has been botched by Gbagbo. Our Armory is seriously depleting, and we do not have the financial resources to strengthen it to prosecute the war. I have now decided to abandon the war. The US and France has since evacuated their citizens from our country. Destruction is imminent, as ECOWAS (Economy Community of West African States) has been c!
alled in to mediate. Their only way of doing this is to bring in ECOMOG (A monitoring group). We witnessed the horror they caused trying to restore peace to Liberia and Sierra Leone during the civil war. Thus I have lost faith and hope in the struggle.

To the point, the essence of my contact with you is to seek your most needed assistance to siphon US$18,500,000 left in the bunker of my Dad?s Private Palace. Only my Dad and me knew about this fund. Now that my Dad is dead, I intend to use this money for my personal benefit (as well as yours if you accept to be my partner). I see justification in diverting the money, rather using it to support the purchase of weapons for destruction of innocent lives and properties.

I secretly fled my Country, and this money was moved in cash to my present location in Europe through diplomatic means, and I have since deposited the trunk containing the funds with a private security company. If you accept to offer me your assistance, I will require that you assist me in claiming the box as a gift from me to you from the security company. Be informed that I am confiding in you by disclosing this to you, as it is only me (apparently you now) that have knowledge of this. When the trunk is claimed, we shall then have the money deposited into an Offshore account in your name, as I am being discrete of using my name for now. Then you shall have your own share withdrawn to an account of your choice, and leave the rest as fixed deposit, for release to me at the appropriate time. 

The importance of prosecuting this within the next few days cannot be overlooked; hence your immediate response will be highly appreciated.

On hearing from you, I shall disclose my location to you, and discuss the share of the money you will be entitled to for offering me your most needed assistance.

In case you are not inclined to render me your assistance, endeavor to respond, so that I may move ahead.

Sincerely,

D. G.

 



