docno="lists-004-5315509"
received="Thu Sep 18 00:31:21 2003"
isoreceived="20030918043121"
sent="Thu, 18 Sep 2003 05:16:25 +0200"
isosent="20030918031625"
name="maryabcha"
email="mariamacha40@yahoo.com"
subject="Pls Help Me"
id="20030918043031.5CF52A05F4@frink.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To: undisclosed-recipients: ;


FROM: MRS. MARYAM  ABACHA.
KANO - NIGERIA

My Dear,

A Very Good day to you. 

This letter may come to you with lot of surprises but patiently go through it for your kind understanding.I got your contact from a discrete search for a trusted and reliable foreigner or company who can be of this great help to me and my family. 

I am Mrs Maryam Abacha, the wife of the former Nigerian Head of State who died on the sit as a result of cadiac arrest in 1998. Following the sudden death of my husband General Sani Abacha,I have been thrown into a state of utter confusion, frustration and hopelessness by the present civilian administration headed by General Olusegun Obasanjo who was his arch enemy(he was thrown into prison by my husband on treason charges),I have been subjected to physical and psychological torture by the security agents in the country. 

As a widow that is so traumatized, I have lost confidence in anybody within the country. 

You must have heard over the media reports and the internet on the recovery of various huge sums of money deposited by my husband in different security firms abroad,some companies willingly gave up their secrets and disclosed our money confidently lodged there and many outrightly blackmailed us. 

In fact the total sum discovered by the Government so far is in the tune of $700.Million dollars. And they are not relenting to make me poor for life. I will give you more information as to this regard as soon as you reply. 

I repose great confidence in you hence my approach to you due to security network placed on my day to day affairs I cannot afford to visit the embassy(house arrest) so that is why I decided to contact you and I hope you will not betray my confidence in you. I have deposited the sum of US$75 million dollars with a security firm abroad whose name is withheld for now until we open communication. 

I shall be grateful if you could receive this fund into your account for safekeeping.This arrangement is known to you and my family lawyer who shall deal directly with you as I am still under house arrest. I am seriously considering to settle down abroad as soon as I regain my freedom so that I can start all over again if only you wish, but if it is possible, just help me in diverting this funds into your bank account which will accrue you 20% of this fund. Please honesty is the watchword in this transaction. I am still under house arrest being monitored by the security agents day-in day-out.

And should you accept my terms, kindly send me an email signifying your interest to help me out through my email box as this is only safe for me now so that we can commence communication immediately. And upon receipt of your message of interest, I shall give you a more detailed picture of things. 

In case you don't accept please do not let me out to the security as I am giving you this information in total trust and confidence. I will greatly 
appreciate if you accept my proposal in good faith. 
Please expedite action. 

Alternative email box: (mary2003@hknetmail.com).

Sincerely Yours 

Mrs. Maryam Abacha.



