docno="lists-017-7565964"
received="Sun Jun 13 23:38:17 2004"
isoreceived="20040614033817"
sent="Mon, 14 Jun 2004 11:35:04 +0800"
isosent="20040614033504"
name="Patrick C. K. Hung"
email="cshck@cs.ust.hk"
subject="Call For Participation: 2004 IEEE International Conference on Web Services (ICWS 2004)"
id="02ac01c451c0$a41dbec0$5b80598f@win2k.cs.ust.hk"
charset="iso-88591"
expires="1"


To:<isworld@lyris.isworld.org>,<dsinfo@listproc.gsu.edu>,<seworld@cs.colorado.edu>,<SIGECOM-TALK@ACM.ORG>,<irma-l@irma-international.org>,<www-ws-desc@w3.org>,<xml-dist-app@w3.org>,<public-p3p-spec@w3.org>,<www-ws-arch@w3.org>,<computerbookauthors@yahoogroups.com>,<DAI-List@mcc.com>,<community@mlnet.org>,<ml@isle.org>,<LearningRobots@cs.bham.ac.uk>,<hybrid-L@po.missouri.edu>,<connectionists@cs.cmu.edu>,<kaw@swi.psy.uva.nl>,<ml@ics.uci.edu>,<members@ai-cbr.org>,<semanticweb@egroups.com>,<EP-List@magenta.me.fau.edu>,<fuzzy-jp@sys.es.osaka-u.ac.jp>,<annoounce@multiagent.com>,<events_calendar@ACM.ORG>,<amlist@takilab.k.dendai.ac.jp>


2004 IEEE International Conference on Web Services (ICWS 2004)
Theme: Convergence of Web Services, Grid Computing, e-Business and Autonomic
Computing
July 6-9, 2004, San Diego, California, USA
http://conferences.computer.org/icws/2004/

Sponsored by the IEEE Computer Society
Technical Community for Services Computing (TCSC)

This year we are pleased to present an extremely strong technical program. A
total of 230 papers were submitted to ICWS this year (a record by far).
Submissions were from over 15 countries. Of the 230 submissions, only 66
were accepted as full research papers. We were fortunate to have about 100
program committee members who assisted us by giving very detailed and timely
reviews. All papers went through a thorough review process. At least two or
more reviewers reviewed each paper. We had significant online PC discussion
for both controversies and for final decision. After extensive discussions,
66 papers were accepted for full paper publication and presentation.

A key aspect of ICWS is to bring the worlds of researchers from both
Computer Science and Business Management together in a single, high-quality
forum. Of the 66 papers accepted, there were CS papers, Business papers, and
what we call "bridge" papers as they bridge the gap between the two fields.
In addition, we offer a strong industry track with 19 papers from
researchers and practioners working in the frontier of Web Services in
industry. Furthermore, this year's technical program also contains 16 short
papers in which authors are able to give a brief description of their
research. Short paper sessions are newly introduced to ICWS this year and we
hope to have started a new and fruitful tradition. Finally, ICWS 2004
technical program also includes three poster paper sessions
accepted from a separate submission channel enabling work-in-progress
results to be shared and disseminated at the conference and 5 tutorials,
reviewing the state of art in five different areas related to advances in
Web Services.

Keynote Address

Keynote 1: Convergence of Web Services, Grid Services and Business Processes
Dr. Donald F. Ferguson
IBM Fellow, Member IBM Academy of Technology
Chief Architect, IBM Software Group
Chairman of IBM SWG Architecture Board

Abstract:
The "Grid" and "Web services" are two of the fastest growing and most
discussed areas in academic and
commercial computing literature. Mergers, acquisition, partnerships and
economic dynamics are driving commercial
investment in business process (re)-engineering. This talk will discuss the
recent and important convergence of
many of these concepts into enterprise service architectures, which are
forming the base for the next generation of
commercial and academic distributed computing.


Keynote 2: Extending the Innovation Ecosystem
Sharon Nunes
Vice President, Emerging Business
IBM Research
Yorktown Heights, New York

Abstract:
What Is Innovation? It's not always about inventing something entirely new.
Innovation occurs at the
intersection of invention and insight. It's about the application of
invention ? the fusion of new developments and
new approaches to solve problems. (Sam Palmisano, Delivered at the Council
on Competitiveness Annual Meeting,
Washington, D.C., October 30, 2003).
In the 21st Century, we are approaching fundamental limits of technology
that will drive new paradigms for
software and systems. Software complexity is driving a rethinking of
software development. There are external
forces including government and societal, that are significantly influencing
the technology agenda. In addition, the
changing business environment demands new approaches to use of IT ?
transformation must be fueled by
innovation. Can we manage innovation? Can we create a culture of innovation?
Can we work with customers and
partners to drive innovation? Various innovation approaches are being
deployed to enhance IBM's innovation
ecosystem. Lessons learned and future innovation drivers will be presented.


Keynote 3: Going Public with Software-as-a-Service
Ephraim Feig
Chief Technology Officer and Chief Marketing Officer
Kintera, Inc.
San Diego, California, USA

Abstract:
The market is demanding seamless application integration. Those who can
deliver on this demand will be
rewarded. Web services will play a key role in making it possible,
affordable, and ease to use.

Keynote 4: Business Services Networks
Jay M. Tenenbaum
Chairman of CommerceNet
Director of Webify Solutions and Medstory Inc.

Abstract:

The fundamental challenge of e-commerce is enabling companies to do business
with one another across a
network, despite different business processes and computer systems.
Traditionally, these problems were overcome
through expensive custom point-to-point integration or Electronic Data
Interchange (EDI) networks. The promise of
the Internet, by contrast, is an open e-business platform where companies
can do business spontaneously with
anyone, anywhere, anytime. Business Services Networks fulfill that vision.
This talk introduces the concept of Business Services Networks and their
profound business and technology
implications for e-commerce. BSNs are Internet business communities where
companies collaborate through loosely
coupled business services. Participants register business services (e.g.,
place an order, make a payment) that others
can discover and incorporate into their own business processes with a few
clicks of a mouse. Companies can build
on each other's services, creating new services and linking them into
industry-transforming, network-centric
business models. We also discuss evolution of BSNs since early 1990's,
emerging technological underpinnings, and
CommerceNet's role in catalyzing their adoption.

Keynote 5: Managing the Intelligent Enterprise
Umeshwar Dayal
HP Fellow and Director
Intelligent Enterprise Technologies Laboratory
Hewlett-Packard Labs.
Umeshwar.dayal@hp.com

Abstract
Over the last few years, we have seen the transformation of the traditional
monolithic enterprise, in which all
operations were performed in-house, to the extended enterprise, which
consists of a network of collaborating
entities. Global operations, outsourcing, and increasing specialization have
all contributed to this trend. One
challenge facing the extended enterprise is how to reconnect the information
flows and business processes that were
disconnected as the enterprise disaggregated. The emergence of web services,
service-oriented architectures, and
business process modeling and execution standards are helping to address
this challenge.
Our contention is that the next phase of evolution is the rise of the
intelligent enterprise, which is characterized
by being able to adapt quickly to changes in its operating environment. The
intelligent enterprise monitors its own
business processes and its interactions with customers, partners, suppliers,
and collaborators; it understands how this
information relates to its business objectives; and it acts to control and
optimize its operations to meet its business
objectives. Decisions are made quickly and accurately to modify business
processes on the fly, dynamically allocate
resources, or change business partners (e.g., suppliers, service providers)
and partnerships (e.g., establish new
service level agreements).
This talk will describe challenges in managing the business operations of an
intelligent enterprise. While a
plethora of tools exist for managing the IT infrastructure (servers,
storage, and network resources) of the enterprise,
there is little systematic support today for the closed loop management and
control of business operations. We will
describe technology approaches to intelligent business operations management
that we are pursuing at HP Labs., the
progress we have made, and some open research questions.



PANELS
Panel 1: Future of Service-Oriented Computing
Moderator: Calton Pu, Georgia Tech, USA

Panel 2: Innovative Applications using Web Services
Moderator: Ephraim Feig, Kintera.com, USA

Panel 3: Quality of Service Management
Moderator: Dejan Milojicic, HP Labs, USA

Panel 4: Security and Privacy in Web Services
Moderator: TBA


TUTORIALS

1. Service Oriented Architectures and Semantic Web Process
Francisco Curbera, Amit Sheth, and Kunal Verma

2. Data Grid and Gridflow Management Systems
Arun Jagatheesan and Reggan Moore

3. Complex Event Processing
Opher Etzion

4. Successful Service-oriented Architecture with Web services: Beyond the
Hype
Ali Arsanjani

5. Semantic Web services: Current Status and Future Directions
Massimo Paolucci and Katia Sycara



