docno="lists-025-4178074"
received="Fri Aug 29 14:52:24 2003"
isoreceived="20030829185224"
sent="Fri, 29 Aug 2003 19:49:22 +0100"
isosent="20030829184922"
name="Howard N Smith"
email="howard.smith@ontology.org"
subject="BPMI.org releases Public Draft of BPMN 1.0"
id="5.0.2.1.2.20030829194827.04873f80@pop3.demon.co.uk"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:public-ws-chor@w3.org


BPMI.org has released the following statement to the press:

http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-bin/cb_headline.cgi?&story_file=bw.082803/232405560&directory=/google&header_file=header.htm&footer_file=

----


( BW)(CO-BPMI.ORG) BPMI.org Releases Working Draft of BPM Notation 1.0

Business Editors/High-Tech Writers

DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Aug. 28, 2003--

Process Modeling Specification Designed to Bridge Gap between Business Analysts and Technical Developers Responsible for Business Process Management in the Enterprise

The Business Process Management Initiative (BPMI.org) today announced the release of the public draft for the Business Process Modeling Notation (BPMN 1.0) providing a readily understandable, royalty-free notation designed for both business process design and business process implementation. As an amalgamation of best practices within the business modeling community, BPMN provides a simple, standardized means of communicating process information to other business users, process implementers, customers, and suppliers.
In achieving this primary objective, BPMN 1.0 also allows different XML-based process languages, e.g., Business Process Execution Language for Web Services (BPEL4WSv1.1) and Business Process Modeling Language (BPMLv1.0), to be visualized using common elements. BPMN is a comprehensive notation and points toward the convergence of open standards for business process management by enabling practitioners to more easily exchange business process models between different business process languages using a standardized graphical notation.
"BPMN will provide businesses with the capability of understanding their internal business procedures in a graphical notation and will give organizations the ability to communicate these procedures in a standard manner," said Stephen White, chair of the BPMN Working Group. "BPMN follows the tradition of flowcharting and swimlane notations for readability, yet still provides the mapping to the executable constructs as defined in BPEL4WS. By doing so, BPMN fills a technical gap between the format of the initial design of business processes and the format of the languages that will execute these business processes. This creates an environment where business people will be more involved in developing, managing, and monitoring IT-intensive business processes."
"Semantic differences between leading process modeling tools and arbitrary differences in visual notation have hindered the take up of process management in the marketplace," says Howard Smith, co-chair of BPMI.org and CTO for Computer Sciences Corporation Europe. "Process and performance management is the majority of all work. The BPMN proposal points toward a time when business people will readily exchange processes as easily as they do word processing documents and spreadsheets today."
The BPMN 1.0 working draft specification is available royalty free for download from BPMI.org's web site at http://www.bpmi.org/bpmn-spec.esp.

About BPMI.org (www.bpmi.org) 

BPMI.org (the Business Process Management Initiative) is a non-profit corporation that empowers companies of all sizes, across all industries, to develop and operate business processes that span multiple applications and business partners, behind the firewall and over the Internet. The Initiative's mission is to promote and develop the use of Business Process Management (BPM) through the establishment of standards for process design, deployment, execution, maintenance, and optimization.
BPMI.org develops open specifications, assists IT vendors in marketing their implementations, and supports businesses in their use of business process management technologies. 

Copyright(c) 2003 BPMI.org

Howard Smith
co-chair BPMI.org/CTO CSC EMEA



