docno="lists-004-5558131"
received="Thu Sep 18 13:58:52 2003"
isoreceived="20030918175852"
sent="Thu, 18 Sep 2003 10:56:41 -0700"
isosent="20030918175641"
name="peterolu@tiscali.co.uk"
email="peterolu@tiscali.co.uk"
subject="Beloved in Christ,"
id="3F69DE3D000002CB@mk-cpfrontend-3.mail.uk.tiscali.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:peterolu@tiscali.co.uk


Dear Beloved in Christ,

It is by the grace of God that I received Christ,knowing the truth and the
truth have set me free.Having known the truth, I had no choice than to do
what is lawful and right in the sight of God for eternal life and in the
sight of man for witness of
God?s mercy and glory upon my life.
I have the pleasure to share my testimony with you,having seen your contact
from the Internet. I am BARRISTER PETER AYO,the legal adviser to late Mr.
and Mrs. Bright Williams,a British couple that lived in my Country Nigeria
for 25 years before they both died in a plane crash late last year. These
couple were good
Christians, they were so dedicated to God but they had no child till they
died. Throughout their stay in my country, they cquired a lot of properties
like lands, house properties, etc.

As their legal adviser, before their death, the husband Mr. Bright Williams
instructed me to write his WILL. Because they had no child, they dedicated
their wealth to God. According to the WILL, the properties have to be sold
and the money be given out to a ministry for the work of God. As their legal
adviser,
all the documents for the properties were in my care. He gave me the authority
to sell the properties and give out the fund to the Ministries for the work
ofGod.

To cut the story short, I sold all the properties after their death, as
instructed by my client,Mr. Bright Williams before his death. And as matter
of fact, after I sold all their properties,expectedly, I realized a huge
amount of money that runs into millions of dollars,and what supposed to
be the  ercentage interest of my right legal fee was firstly deducted by
me out of the total amount realized from the sold properties, this was based
on the initial agreement between me and the owner of the properties before
his death. 
Therefore,the total amount left to be invested into God's work as instructed
by the owner is $20,000,000.00 (twenty million US dollars) only. But Instead
of giving the main fund out for the work of God as instructed to me by my
client before his death.
I converted the fund to myself with the intention of investing the fund
abroad for my personal use. I was afraid of putting the fund in the Bank,
because I have to give account to the bank on how got the money. I then
packaged the fund in consignments and deposited the consignments with a
security company. I did not
want the management of the Security Company to know the content of the consignments,
therefore I registered the content of the consignments as Gold Bars. Now,
the security company believes that what I deposited with them was Gold Bars.

I had encounter with Christ when Pastor Benny Hinn was preaching on television
concerning Ananias and Saphira in Acts 5:1-11. After hearing the word of
God, I gave my life to Christ and became a born again Christian. As a born
again Christian, I started reading my bible and one day, the Lord opened
my eyes to Ezekiel 33: 18 nd 19. From the scripture, I discovered that the
only way I could have peace in my life is to do what is lawful and right
by giving out the fund as instructed for the work of God by my client.
I have asked God for forgiveness on my initial thought  oncerning the money,and
I know that God have forgiven me. But I have to do what is lawful and right
in the sight of God by giving out the fund to the chosen inistry for the
purpose of God's work as instructed by my client before his death. After
my fasting and prayers, I asked God to make his choice and direct me to
a honest Christian or the chosen ministry that deserves this fund by his
Grace.
I then came across your address on the Internet as I was rowsing through
a Christian site, and as a matter of fact, it is not nly you or your ministry
that I picked on the Christian site nitially, but after my fervent prayer
over it, then you were nominated  through divine revelation from God, so
that was  how I
received such a divine revelation from the Lord, how I got your contact
information, and I then decided to contact you for the fund to be used wisely
for things that will glorify the name of God.

I have notified the Security Company where I deposited the consignments
that contained the fund, that I am moving the consignment abroad and the
security company has since been waiting for my authority for the consignment
to leave my country and be moved abroad. So if you know that you will use
this fund honestly and wisely for things that will glorify God's name,then
do contact me back,ASAP.Then you send to me in your reply,YOUR FULL NAMES,YOUR
PERSONAL ADDRESS,YOUR TELEPHONE AND FAX NUMBERS.These informations are required
by the seurity company to
facilitate the  process  of the funds receiver's documentation

Your prompt response will be highly appreciated.
God bless you.

Yours in Christ.
BARRISTER PETER olu.:234-80-345-44689

 




 



