docno="lists-046-13474783"
received="Tue May 19 12:23:14 1998"
isoreceived="19980519162314"
sent="Tue, 19 May 1998 12:23:13 -0400"
isosent="19980519162313"
name="Sally Khudairi"
email="khudairi@w3.org"
subject="W3C News: Testimonials on P3P"
id="3561B1F1.E3E1332A@w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To: W3C News Service<w3c-news@w3.org>

W3C Publishes First Public
Working Draft of P3P 1.0 

Testimonials  http://www.w3.org/Press/1998/P3P-test.html


  Contact America --
                  Sally Khudairi <khudairi@w3.org>
                  +1.617.253.8036
  Contact Europe -- 
                  Ned Mitchell <ned@ala.com>
                  +33 1 43 22 79 56
                  Andrew Lloyd <allo@ala.com>
                  +44 127 367 5100
  Contact Asia --
                  Yumiko Matsubara <matsubara@w3.org>
                  +81.466.49.1170


AOL ? AT&T ? CDT ? The DMA ? Engagetech ? Hogan & Harston  ?IBM ?
ICC ? Intermind ? Matchlogic ? Microsoft ? Narrowline ? Ontario
Information and Privacy Commissioner ? Open Sesame ? Somm&Partner
AG ? TRUSTe ? United States Vice President 


    "AOL is pleased to have been involved from its inception in
    the development of the Platform for Privacy Preferences
    (P3P). It is through creative technological solutions like P3P
    that consumers will develop the confidence and trust
    necessary to benefit from robust, electronic commerce and for
    the Internet online medium to grow globally. We look forward
    to P3P's ubiquitous implementation."
    -- George Vradenburg, Senior Vice President and
    General Counsel, America Online Inc. 

    "P3P has been designed to provide a convenient way for
    Internet users to control the use of their personal information.
    AT&T is proud to have contributed to this important
    technology tool that will empower users to make choices
    about their online experiences. We hope P3P can go a long
    way towards addressing the many concerns Internet users
    have about privacy."
    -- Dr. Lorrie Faith Cranor, Senior Technical Staff Member,
    AT&T Labs-Research. 

    "Coupled with strong privacy policies and practices, P3P
    stands to become a robust and effective tool for privacy
    protection on the Internet. Properly implemented it will help
    individuals protect their privacy by providing them with control
    over their personal information during interactions on the
    World Wide Web. Its emphasis on individual control respects
    the complexities of implementing policy in a decentralized
    network like the Internet. Its reliance on a technical platform
    and a broad, flexible vocabulary will allow it to address
    individuals' privacy concerns as they move across the Web.
    Shaping the infrastructure of the Web to support individual
    control over personal information is an important step in the
    process or protecting privacy in this emerging environment.
    The task ahead is to ensure that P3P implementations meet
    the public's demand for real, effective privacy protection."
    --Deirdre Mulligan, Staff Counsel, Center for Democracy
    and Technology 

    "Consumers are responding to e-commerce: interactive sales
    approached $2 billion in 1997. That is why The DMA is
    invested in the P3P process. By delivering a privacy
    protection program that meets the needs of both consumers
    and marketers, we will be assuring that e-commerce will thrive
    as the next great direct marketing medium. Marketers want
    consumers to feel comfortable in the online marketplace."
    -- Patricia Faley, Vice President, Consumer Affairs, The
    DMA. 

    "Internet privacy is of the utmost concern to consumers. The
    P3P goes a long way in demonstrating that Engage
    Technologies and other industry leaders are taking this
    concern very seriously. We are honored to have contributed
    to such instrumental technology, and to the dramatic
    improvements it will bring to the way information is exchanged
    over the Web."
    -- Dan Jaye, CTO, Engage Technologies, Inc. 

    "We need the tools to protect our privacy online and P3P is
    essential to empower all of us to make informed choices on
    the basis of our privacy preferences as we navigate the Web."
    -- Christine Varney, Attorney, Internet Practice, Hogan
    and Hartson 

    "Privacy and the appropriate use of personal information is an
    important part of enabling e-business on the Web. IBM is
    delighted to see P3P becoming available to help consumers
    have more confidence that they can safely disclose
    information about themselves while controlling its use."
    -- John Patrick, Vice President - Internet Technology,
    IBM Corporation. 

    "As creators and providers of original content, the Internet
    Content Coalition is delighted to see P3P becoming
    available."
    --Christopher Barr and Dan Farber, co-chairs, Internet
    Content Coalition 

    "P3P is absolutely central to the intelligent information
    interchange services Intermind is pioneering. You can't let
    machines automatically exchange sensitive data without
    giving users control over that process. P3P is that control
    mechanism, and we expect it to be the key to establishing a
    new climate of trust for all types of Internet transactions."
    --Drummond Reed, Co-Founder, Intermind Corp. 

    "People using the Internet will need to rely on a tool to help
    them control how and when their personal information is
    exchanged. P3P is a valuable tool to help them control how
    they exchange information online. When a person uses the
    Internet they are often asked to provide information to
    web-sites for a number of purposes. We simply defined what
    those purposes are and how a person can respond to those
    requests for their information. This is a technological solution
    to the complex privacy issues facing the Internet today. We
    expect that trust and confidence on the Internet will increase
    dramatically as a result of the implementation of this
    standard."
    -- Dr. Steven Lucas, CIO, MatchLogic. 

    "For the Internet to achieve its full potential, people must know
    that their personal information is secure and private. Unless
    consumers and businesses have confidence in the privacy
    and security on the Web, the movement toward electronic
    commerce and personalization of online services will be
    dramatically slowed. This P3P standard represents a major
    step forward in online security and privacy, which will help
    clear the way for continued growth and development of the
    Internet. Microsoft is proud to have worked with a broad
    coalition of companies and organizations to develop this P3P
    standard, and we will continue to work with the W3C on
    industry-wide efforts to advance security and privacy on the
    Web." 
    -- Bob Herbold, Chief Operating Officer, Microsoft. 

    "The best relationships are those which are build out of trust.
    Narrowline was proud to participate in this project where,
    together with leading technology companies, industry
    organizations and advocacy groups, the Internet industry
    proved it could come together to build socially aware and
    smart technology standards for the digital era. P3P is an
    important element in building robust technology tools to
    empower users and businesses to have informed and honest
    relationships. This is a critical step forward in fulfilling the
    promise of electronic commerce and communication not only
    in the US but globally."
    -- Tara Lemmey, Founder and Chairman, Narrowline 

    As a participant in the development of the World Wide Web
    Consortium's Privacy Preferences Project (P3P), the Ontario
    Information and Privacy Commissioner supports the
    responsible use of the P3P standard for privacy protection. It
    is very encouraging to see activities like P3P make privacy
    become a part of every day life. The global nature of
    E-commerce and information flow means there must be global
    mechanisms to allow individuals to maintain control over their
    information. Currently, legislation is uneven in its ability to
    provide this protection. Solutions like P3P, developed through
    consensus, mean that privacy on the Net can be improved
    right now. 
    -- Ann Cavoukian, Ph.D., Commissioner, Ontario
    Information and Privacy Commissioner 

    "We at Open Sesame have demonstrated our commitment to
    user privacy through our support of P3P, our strong privacy
    policy, and the unique opt out features of our personalization
    software. We intend to fully support the P3P standard
    throughout the Open Sesame personalization software
    product line." 
    -- Alper Caglayan, President, Open Sesame 

    "As the first European company to establish sales enhancing
    Virtual Communities on the Net, Somm & Partner believes that
    P3P is critical to addressing essential requirements for
    success on the Net: trust, confidence, privacy, and commerce.
    Somm & Partner supports P3P as a mechanism for
    addressing commerce and privacy concerns globally."
    -- Felix Somm, President & CEO, Somm & Partner AG 

    "P3P is an important step in establishing a privacy dialog
    between Web sites and their visitors. It provides a standard
    for disclosing online privacy practices, and gives users the
    ability to make informed decisions about the use of their
    personal information. Coupled with third party assurance, P3P
    will accelerate the growth of online commerce by helping to
    alleviate consumers' biggest online concern: lack of privacy.
    TRUSTe looks forward to working with technology developers
    to implement assurance mechanisms like P3P that will further
    consumer trust."
    -- Jonathan Stark, Technical Director, TRUSTe. 

    "I welcome this important new tool for privacy protection. It will
    empower individuals to maintain control over their personal
    information while using the World Wide Web."
    -- Al Gore, Vice President, United States States of
    America.



