docno="lists-008-7842774"
received="Tue May  7 00:40:48 2002"
isoreceived="20020507044048"
sent="Tue, 07 May 2002 06:44:36 +0200"
isosent="20020507044436"
name="Abdul Kabila Jr."
email="momoh_a@lycos.co.uk"
subject="Kindly Get Back To Me Please"
id="200205070440.AAA29994@tux.w3.org"
charset="iso-88591"
expires="1"



ATT: 
                CONFIDENTIAL PROPOSAL

You may be surprised to receive this letter from me, since you do not know me personally. I am ABDUL MOMOH, the son of NDIATA MOMOH, the most popular black farmer in Zimbabwe. He was recently murdered in the land dispute in my country. I got your contact through network
online hence decided to write you. 

Before the death of my father, he had taken me to Johannesburg to deposit the sum of US8.5 million (Eight million, Five Hundred United States dollars), in one of the private security company, as he foresaw the looming danger in Zimbabwe. This money was deposited in a box as gemstones to avoid much demurrage from Security Company. This amount was meant for the purchase of new machines and chemicals for the farms and establishment of new farms in Swaziland.

This land problem came when Zimbabwean President Mr. Robert Mugabe introduced a new land Act Reform wholly affecting the rich white farmers and some few black farmers, and this resulted to the killing and mob action by Zimbabwean war veterans and some lunatics in the
society. In fact a lot of people were killed because of this Land reform Act for which my father was one of the victims.

It is against this background that, my family and I fled Zimbabwe for fear of our lives and are currently staying in the Netherlands where we are seeking political asylum and more so, have decided to transfer my father's money to a more reliable foreign account. Since the law of Netherlands prohibits a refugee (asylum seeker) to have such amount of money in any bank account or to be involved in any financial transaction of such magnitude throughout the territorial zone of Netherlands.

As the first son, I am saddled with the responsibility of seeking a genuine foreign account where this money could be transferred without the knowledge of my government who are bent on taking everything we have got. The South African government seems to be playing along with them. I am faced with the dilemma of moving this amount of money out of South 
Africa for fear of going through the same experience in future, both countries have similar political history.

As a businessman, I am seeking for a partner, who I have to entrust my future and that of my family in his hands. I must let you know that this transaction is risk free. If you accept to assist my family, and me all I want you to do for me, is to make an arrangement with the security company to clear the consignment (funds) from their affiliate office here in the Netherlands. I have already given directives for the consignment to be brought from South Africa to The Netherlands. But before then all modalities will have to be put in place like change of 
ownership of the consignment and more importantly this money I intend to use for investment.

I have two options for you. Firstly I can give you certain percentage of the money for for agreeing to assist in this transaction. Or you can go into partnership with me for the proper profitable investment in your country. Whichever option you want, feel free to notify
me. I have also mapped out 5% of this money for all kinds of expenses incurred in the process of this transaction. Contact me with this E-mail while I implore you to maintain the absolute secrecy required in this  transaction. 

Thanks, GOD BLESS YOU

Yours Faithfully,
Abdul Momoh.
  



