docno="lists-046-14191147"
received="Wed Jan 26 11:39:45 2000"
isoreceived="20000126163945"
sent="Wed, 26 Jan 2000 11:39:55 -0500"
isosent="20000126163955"
name="Janet Daly"
email="janet@w3.org"
subject="W3C News Release: Testimonials Supporting World Wide Web Consortium   XHTML 1.0 Recommendation"
id="388F235B.55276D77@w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-news@w3.org

W3C News Release: Testimonials Supporting World Wide Web Consortium
XHTML 1.0 Recommendation

Contact North America, Europe --
       Janet Daly, <janet@w3.org>, +1.617.253.5884
Contact Asia --
       Yuko Watanabe <yuko@w3.org>, +81.466.49.1170

Links from W3C:

News Release: 
        http://www.w3.org/2000/01/xhtml-pressrelease.html.en
Testimonials:
        http://www.w3.org/2000/01/xhtml-test.html
XHTML 1.0 Recommendation
        http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/REC-xhtml-20000126


In coordination with W3C's announcement of the XHTML 1.0 Recommendation,
W3C members have supplied statements of support for XHTML 1.0, including
annoucements of current implementations or planned support in uncoming products.

The organizations which provided testimonials are: Access Co. Ltd.,
Communicate.com, CWI, Ericsson, Hewlett-Packard, HTML Writers Guild,
IBM,  Netscape Communications Corporation, Opera Software, Phone.com,
SoftQuad Software Inc., Stack Overflow, Web3D Consortium, and ZOT Group. 

Testimonials


Internet services and communications will be significantly extended by
well-defined HTML in XML. Access expects the flexibility, extensibility,
and modularity of XHTML 1.0 to handle various kinds of content,
including multimedia data. Access is now supporting XHTML 1.0 in our
browser NetFront for DTV (Digital Satellite  Broadcasting) and also
plans to support it in our micro browser, Compact NetFront, for small
information appliances such as cellular phones.
  -- Tomy Kamada, Executive Vice President and CTO, Access Co. Ltd. 


As the first non-military Internet site in Europe, the CWI has always
strived to be at the forefront of Internet technology. We see the
release of XHTML 1.0 as an important step towards interoperable 
platform-independent documents, promoting the easier exchange of information.
  -- Gerard van Oortmerssen, Director, CWI


XHTML 1.0 is a crucial step in the Web's evolution, from a simple means
to link and share documents to a universal, device-independent platform
for commerce in products, services and ideas. Modular and extensible,
XHTML presents solutions to key challenges for Communicate.com: as we
develop our network of domains, we need to reach people all over the
world, on all manner of devices. XHTML, XML, WAI, and the many other
important W3C initiatives help Communicate.com to make this possible.
  -- Michael Fergusson, VP, Design and Development, Communicate.com


Ericsson is very happy to see XHTML 1.0 made a W3C Recommendation. We
are now able to see a realistic and rapid path for the convergence of
the mobile and fixed-network Web. Mobile devices already use an
XML-based markup language (WML), and convergence of WML towards XHTML,
as well as use of data from the Web on mobile devices, is tremendously
simplified by the W3C formalization of the XHTML specification. We have
been working hard in both the W3C and the WAP Forum to enable this, and
while a lot of work is yet to be done, this is a big step forward.
  -- Kari Laihonen, Manager, IT Standardization, Corporate Technology,
Ericsson 


HP is thrilled about XHTML 1.0 becoming a W3C Recommendation. Our HP
ChaiFarer Web browser supports XHTML for embedded systems, thereby
allowing easy customization of the Web experience for different classes
of devices.
  -- William Woo, General Manager, Embedded Software,
Hewlett-Packard 



Extensibility, modularity, interoperability -- the XHTML 1.0
specification brings together the needs of the Web designer in a tidy
XML-based package. As the stepping stone between HTML and XML, XHTML
allows a web creator to begin using XML today in web applications, while
maintaining compatibility with existing HTML browsers.
  -- Ann Navarro, Vice-President, HTML Writers Guild



XHTML is an important open standard that will help our e-business
customers deploy to web applications on any browser via XML-enabled
servers. IBM is excited by the power that XHTML will bring to pervasive
computing as the need to deliver information to devices such as cell
phones, PDAs and set top boxes grows exponentially.
   -- Marie Wieck, Director of XML Technology, IBM Corp.
 

As a leading supporter of XML and HTML 4.0, Netscape is pleased by the
release of the XHTML 1.0 Recommendation. XHTML provides a clean, fully
XML-compliant syntax for the large amount of content already available
on the Web and will make this content accessible to tools and
applications that support XML. The Netscape/Mozilla browser currently in
progress will provide full HTML 4.0 compliance making it a short, easy
transition to XHTML 1.0 in a subsequent release. Content written in HTML
4.0 will migrate easily to XHTML. Together with other W3C standards like
CSS, DOM, and XML, XHTML will provide greater structure, power,
interoperability, and control for documents and data on the Internet.
 -- Jim Hamerly, Vice President of Client Products, Netscape
Communications Corporation - a  subsidiary of America OnLine, Inc. 


XHTML 1.0 takes the best of both worlds: the global semantics of HTML
and the simple grammar of XML. The result is a document format which
fulfills the needs of the Web for years to come. Opera's browser
displays XHTML documents today.
  -- Hakon Wium Lie, Chief Technical Officer, Opera Software


As an active member of the HTML Working Group and a leading proponent of
the convergence of Web technologies, Phone.com is very pleased by the
release of the XHTML 1.0 specification as a W3C Recommendation. XHTML
1.0 lays the groundwork for the modularization to come in XHTML 1.1.
Modularized XHTML will be the cornerstone in the foundation of the
scalable web--where information, services and content will be
universally accessible to a broad range of client devices, from
computers and televisions to cellular phones and voice browsers.
  -- Peter King, Director of Technolgy, Phone.com 


Recasting HTML in XML syntax combines two very important pieces of Web
technology, thereby enabling a seamless transition to XML, the future of
the Web. SoftQuad Software will support XHTML in our future products.
  -- Bruce Sharpe, Chief Technology Officer, SoftQuad Software Inc.


XHTML is a significant step towards the future of the Web. As a
light-weight successor to HTML 4, XHTML significantly reduces complexity
and cost for both implementors and content developers, while offering
greater flexibility. As HTML has now become part of the XML framework,
interoperability and extensibility will enable a wide range of
industries and communities to communicate, share knowledge and conduct
business over the Web. We are fully committed to working with the W3C
and plan to support future versions of XHTML in the Mozquito family of
products.is a significant step towards the future of the Web. 
  -- Sebastian Schnitzenbaumer, CEO, Stack Overflow


The Web3D Consortium is a non-profit organization dedicated to the
development and support of open standards for 3D graphics on the Web. We
enthusiastically support XHTML advancement as a W3C Recommendation. Our
concurrent efforts producing the Extensible 3D (X3D) Graphics
specification benefit directly from XHTML progress. Authors will be able
to produce rich multimedia content that includes X3D scenes, SVG,
MathML, audio, video, and streaming events, all integrated compatibly
within an XHTML hypermedia framework. We continue working with W3C
activities to produce compatible and interoperable technologies. 
  -- Don Brutzman, Vice President of Technology, Web3D Consortium


W3C's Recommendation for XHTML provides the critical and immediate link
between HTML and XML. With its extensible core architecture, XHTML
enables site builders to develop more flexible Web pages and
applications, as well as enhanced eCommerce functionality. XHTML 1.0
enables today's solutions to be easily built upon in the future --
moving beyond existing platform and browser constraints...beyond the
desktop to any connected device: laptops, handheld computers, mobile
phones, PDAs, 2-way pagers, and more. ZOT Group applauds W3C's efforts,
and will continue to support their role in developing future XHTML specifications.
  -- Sally Khudairi, CEO, ZOT Group



