docno="lists-090-4010442"
received="Thu May 23 23:44:52 2002"
isoreceived="20020524034452"
sent="Tue, 24 Sep 2002 04:44:45"
isosent="20020924084445"
name="Mr Chris Amadi"
email="chrisamadi78@yahoo.com"
subject="Awaiting your  response"
id="200205240344.XAA10797@tux.w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:wai-tech-comments@w3.org

Dear Sir ,

First, I must solicit your confidence in this transaction, this is by virtue if its nature as being utterly CONFIDENTIAL and TOP SECRET. Though I know that a transaction of this magnitude will make any one apprehensive and worried, but I am assuring you that all will be well at the end of the day. Let me start first by introducing myself properly to you. 

I am CHRIS AMADI, a Manager with the Union Bank of Nigeria Plc Lagos. I came to know of you in my private
search for a reliable and reputable person to handle this confidential transaction which involves the transfer of a huge sum of money to a foreign account requiring maximum confidence.THE PROPOSITION:
A foreigner, Late Engineer Marck Smith, an Oil Merchant/Contractor with the Federal Government of Nigeria, until his death five years ago in a ghastly air crash,he banked with us here at union Bank Plc. Lagos, and had a closing balance of US$14M (Fourteen Million, United States Dollars)which the bank now unquestionably expects it to be claimed by any
available foreign next-of-kin of the Late beneficiary or alternatively be donated to adiscredited trust fund for arms and ammunition at a military war college here in Nigeria. Fervent valuable efforts are being made by the Union Bank to get in
touch with any of the Smith's family or relativesbut proved to avail. It is because of the perceived possibility of not being able to locate any of Late Engr. Marck Smith's next-of-kin (he had no known wife and children) that the management under the influence of our chairman and member of the board of directors, retired MajorGeneral Victor Umeh, that an arrangement be made for the funds to be declared _UNCLAIMABLE_ and subsequently be donated to the Trust Fund for Arms and Ammunition to further enhance the course of war in Africa and the world in general.
In order to avert this negative development, so of my trusted colleagues and I now seek your permission to have you stand as a next-of-kin to Late Engr. Marck Smith so that the funds US$14M would be released and paid into your bank account as the beneficiary next-of-kin. All documents and proves to enable you get this fund will be carefully worked out and more so we are assuring you of a 100% risk free involvement. Your share stays while the rest would be for myself
and my colleagues for investment purposes in your country. We have agreed that, the funds will be shared thus, after it has been transferred into your account1. 30% of the money will go to you for acting as the beneficiary of the funds.
2. 10% will be set aside for reimbursement to both parties for anyincidental expenses that may be incurred inthe course of the transfer.3. 60% to us the originators of the transaction.If this proposal is OK by you and you do not wish to
take undue advantage of the trust, we hope to bestow on you and your company, then kindly get to me immediately via my private email address above for security reason. Furnishing me with your most confidential telephone, fax number and exclusive bank particulars or preferably you should open a fresh account specifically for this transaction, so that I
can use these information to apply for the release and subsequent transfer of the funds in your favour.

Thank you in advance for your anticipatedco-operation.

Yours faithfully,
CHRIS AMADI
Manager,  (UNION BANK OF NIG



