docno="lists-059-4347004"
received="Thu May 25 15:30:55 2000"
isoreceived="20000525193055"
sent="Thu, 25 May 2000 15:30:31 -0400"
isosent="20000525193031"
name="pjenkins@us.ibm.com"
email="pjenkins@us.ibm.com"
subject="Re: &quot;to urge, suggest or dictate&quot;"
id="852568EA.006B2AD6.00@d54mta04.raleigh.ibm.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="&quot;to urge, suggest or dictate&quot;"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-wai-au@w3.org





Responding to some of Jan's comments:


Jutta Treviranus wrote:
> Beyond the implementation details the sticking points we can't reach
> agreement on are:
> - whether the prompt requires author response or requests author response

JR: Part of this issue is the question, "what counts as a response?".
Some seem to be arguing that this must be a one issue notice of some
kind with a dismiss button of some sort (i.e. OK or Cancel). I would
argue that displaying multiple issue dialog boxes, such as a properties
dialog with emphasis on the missing field, counts because the user is
responding to all the requests when they close the box.  This is not
perfect, but it is far preferable to an annoying single issue box that
can be quickly and permanently disabled.

PJ: I agree.  This is an example of integrating the prompt, "missing
fields" into the overall "look and feel" of the attribute input dialog.


> - whether the prompt must occur within the same authoring session

JR: I think this will be cleared up once we decide what a prompt can
be.  For example, if (for sake of argument) a warning on a save dialog
box or displaying a properties dialog whenever an image inserted,
regardless of method, count as prompting, then this issue will be a mute
point.

PJ: I believe that both of these are prompting techniques:
     warning on a save dialog
     displaying a properties dialog
and that they meet the definition of the "tool initiating the request from
the author".  From a compliance point of view, if a "properties dialog" is
displayed, and the accessibility attributes are not integrated into the
dialog, then the tool fails both the prompting guideline 3 and the
integration guideline 5. If a tool does not integrate other "checking and
correcting" information into the save dialog, such as misspellings or bad
links, then in my opinion it would be in compliance without the
accessibility warning.  But I would still list it in the techniques
document.


> - whether the prompting must be on by default

JR: This is not a black or white issue.  Instead of being "on" or "off",
I think that configurability allows us to talk in terms of interface
visibility.  Personally, I think that the accessibility features should
be required to have some visibility (toolbar, menus, help, dialogs) by
default, even if more active reminders are not enabled.

PJ: I agree.  Again, techniques for prompting that is well integrated in
the overall look and feel.

Phill Jenkins



