docno="lists-004-3804099"
received="Tue Sep  9 16:11:01 2003"
isoreceived="20030909201101"
sent="Tue, 9 Sep 2003 22:11:21 +0200"
isosent="20030909201121"
name="CONTE ABU  GARBA"
email="abuconte@rediff.com"
subject="THIS IS VERY URGENT"
id="20030909201053.E0A64137B4@dr-nick.w3.org"
charset="windows-1250"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



 ATTENTION:DEAR SIR 
I received encouraging information about you and how trust worthy you are. I am delighted with such a useful information.The purpose of my introduction is that I am Mr. Abu Conte, the first son of Late Abu Conte Garba one of the most popular black farmers in Zimbabwe who was recently murdered in the land dispute in my country. I got your contact through network online hence decided to write you. Before the death of my father, he had taken me to Johannesburg to deposit the sum of USD$14.5 million (Fourteen million, Five Hundred thousand United States dollars), in one of the private security and finance company, as he foresaw the looming danger in Zimbabwe this funds was deposited in a box as gem stones to avoid much demurrage from the security and finance company. This amount was meant for the purchase of new machines and chemicals for the Farms and establishment of new farms in swaziland. 
This land problem came when Zimbabwean President Mr. Robert Mugabe introduced a new Land Act Reform wholly affecting the rich white farmers and some few black farmers, and this resulted to the killing and mob action by Zimbabwean war veterans and some lunatics in the society. In fact a lot of people were killed because of this Land reform Act for which my father was one of the victims. It is against this background that, I and my family fled Zimbabwe for fear of our lives and are currently staying in the Spain where we are seeking political asylum and moreso have decided to transfer my fathers money to a more reliable foreign account. since the law of Spanish prohibits a refugee (asylum seeker) to open any bank account or to be involved in any financial transaction throughout the territorial zone of Spanish, As the eldest son of my father, I am saddled with the responsibility of seeking a genuine foreign account where these funds could be transferred witho
 ut the knowledge of my government who are bent on taking everything we have got. The South African government seems to be playing along with them. 
I am faced with the dilemma of moving this amount of money out of South Africa for fear of going through the same experience in future, both countries have similar political history. I am seeking for a partner who I have to entrust my future and that of my family in his hands, I must let you know that this transaction is risk free. If you accept to assist me and my family, all I want you to do for me, is to make an arrangements with the security and finance company to clear the consignment(funds) from any of their affiliated office as I have already given directives for the consignment should be brought from South Africa.But before then all modalities will have to be put in place like change of ownership to the consignment and more importantly this money I intend to use for investment. I have two options for you. Firstly you can choose to have certain percentage of the funds for nominating your account for this transaction. Or you can go into partnersh
 ip with me for the proper profitable investment of the funds in your country. Whichever the option you want, feel free to notify me. I have also mapped out 5% of this money for all kinds of expenses incurred in the process of this transaction.If you do not prefer a partnership I am willing to give you 10% of the money while the remaining 85% will be for my investment in your country. And also please be kind to clarify the following: 1. Can your account accommodate this fund in your local bank without government intervention or do you have an account outside your country where you may consider safe for this fund. 2. What are taxation in your country as I desire a low/free tax zone. 3. What are interest rates on long/short term fixed deposit in your local banks. 4. What other lucrative investments would you suggest as I intend banking, real estate and import/export investments. 5. Can you be able to make residential documents and purchase 
 a house for me and my family to relocate and settle in your country. Contact me with this E-mail address mamaufuma@yahoo.es or call me on 34 680125031, FAX: 0034917195164 while I want you to maintain the absolute secrecy required in this transaction. 
Note:your prompt response will be appreciated. 
Thanks, GOD BLESS 
Yours Faithfully, 
CONTE ABU GARBA.



