docno="lists-004-4220144"
received="Fri Sep 12 10:15:21 2003"
isoreceived="20030912141521"
sent="Fri, 12 Sep 2003 16:14:09 +0200"
isosent="20030912141409"
name="magrethhacth@netscape.net"
email="magrethhacth@netscape.net"
subject="PLEASE USE IT FOR THE CHILDREN OF GOD"
id="20030912141519.BE25E1334E@dr-nick.w3.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



From: Mrs Magreth Hatch 

PLEASE ENDEAVOUR TO USE IT FOR THE CHILDREN OF GOD. 

I am the above named person from Kuwait. I am married to Mr. Kazeem Hatch who worked with Kuwait embassy in Ivory Coast for nine years before he died in the year 2001.    We were married for eleven years without a child. He died after a brief illness that lasted for only four days. Before his death we were both born again Christians.When my late husband was alive he deposited the sum of$10.6Million (Ten Million six hundred   thousand U.S. Dollars) with one Pinnacle Finance/Security Company in Spain. Presently, this money is still 
with the Security  Company. 

Recently, my Doctor told me that I would not last for the next three months due to cancer problem. Though what disturbs me most is my  stroke. Having known my condition I decided to donate this fund to church or better still a christian individual that will utilize this money the way I am going to instruct here in. I want a church that will use this fund to fund churches, orphanages,Research centers and widows propagating the word of God and to ensure   that the house of God is maintained. The Bible made us to understand that Blessed is the hand that giveth. 

I took this decision because I dont have any child that will  inherit this 
money and my husband relatives are not Christians and I dont want my 
husbands hard earned money to be misused by unbelievers. I dont want a 
situation where this money will be used in an ungodly manner. Hence the 
reason for taking this bold decision. I am not afraid of death hence I know 
where I am going. I know that I am going to be in the bossom of the Lord. 
Exodus 14 VS 14 says that  the lord will fight my case and I shall hold my peace. I dont need any telephone communication in this regard because of my health because of the presence of my husbands relatives around me always. I dont want them to know about this development. With God all things are possible.   As soon as I receive your reply I shall give you the contact of the Pinnacle Finance/Security Company  in spain . I will also issue you a letter of authority that will empower you as the new beneficiary of this fund. 

I want you and the church to always pray for me because the lord is my 
shephard. My happiness is that I lived a life of a worthy Christian. Whoever that wants to serve the Lord must serve him in spirit and truth. Please always be prayerful all through your life. Any delay  in your reply will give me room in sourcing for a church or christian individual for this   same purpose. Please assure me that you will act accordingly as I  stated herein. Hoping to hear from you. 
Remain blessed in the name of the Lord. 

Yours in christ,
Mrs  Magreth Hatch 



