docno="lists-038-7633221"
received="Mon Jul  6 19:31:26 1998"
isoreceived="19980706233126"
sent="Mon, 6 Jul 1998 16:30:33 -0700"
isosent="19980706233033"
name="Jim Whitehead"
email="ejw@ics.uci.edu"
subject="Call for Volunteers"
id="001e01bda936$11f15a40$d115c380@galileo.ics.uci.edu"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To: WEBDAV WG<w3c-dist-auth@w3.org>


As the WebDAV WG moves ahead with work on versioning and access control,
there are some positions available for people who want to become more
involved.

-----------

First, I'm looking for volunteers to serve on the versioning and variant
authoring protocol design team.  The design team for the versioning
protocol, like the design team for the Distributed Authoring Protocol, will
develop a protocol for Web versioning.  The intent of having a design team
is to address the drawbacks of performing protocol design in a large group,
while not losing the benefits of large group review.  As a result, this
protocol document will be developed by the design team, but is always
subject to feedback and approval from the working group, which is the final
arbiter of consensus on the draft.

Members of the design team will be expected to travel to design team
meetings (probably one meeting every 1-2 months at the beginning, while the
design is being hammered out), and will also be expected to actively track
mailing list discussion on the document.  Some specification writing
responsibilities are also likely.

-----------

There is also a position open for up to 2 additional editors on the access
control requirements document.  While I feel that Lisa Lippert (Dusseault)
has done an excellent job on these documents, I am wary about having sole
authorship of both the requirements and protocol document for *any*
protocol.

I expect that work on this document can be handled via email, with some
conference calls.  Volunteering for this work will require actively tracking
list discussions on access control, as well as some writing
responsibilities.

-----------

If there are people on the list who are interested in collaborating on the
development of a WebDAV server, I'll gladly put you in touch with one
another.  Unfortunately, our efforts at UCI towards development of a WebDAV
server were not successful (due primarily to erratic management and lack of
experience, but not due to inherent difficulties in the protocol), and we
are unlikely to develop a WebDAV server in the near future.  But, I would be
more than happy to share our experiences from trying.  I would really like
to see a DAV implementation which has publically available source.

-----------

I also have some ideas for some simple WebDAV client applications.  Since
there are at present no publically available servers, they're a bit tricky
to write, but not impossible (the WebDAV Explorer managed).  Let me know if
you're interested, and I'll pass along some ideas, and put you in contact
with other interested programmers.

------------

So, if you're interested in any of these positions or projects, send me an
email at ejw@ics.uci.edu.

- Jim



