docno="lists-075-0810101"
received="Wed Sep  1 06:45:30 1999"
isoreceived="19990901104530"
sent="Wed, 01 Sep 1999 06:41:14 -0400"
isosent="19990901104114"
name="David Poehlman"
email="poehlman@clark.net"
subject="[Fwd: Accessible Videos via the web . . .]"
id="37CD02CA.B63987EA@clark.net"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To: WAI Interest Group<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>

this may assist some in learning how assistive technologies work.  I
have not seen the pages / videos yet.  comments to the able channel
please?

-------- Original Message --------
Subject: Accessible Videos via the web . . .
Date: Tue, 31 Aug 1999 22:08:11 -0400
From: jeffrey pledger <jpledger@mindspring.com>
Reply-To: access-l@icomm.ca
To: access-l@icomm.ca

**ACCESSIBLE VIDEO CONTENT DONE THROUGH VIDEO STREAMING**

The Able Channel at www.tvontheweb.com is proud to announce our
initial
production of hosting accessible videos delivered through the web by
video
streaming techniques.    

What are accessible videos and how will they benefit the disabled
community?

Through the use of leading edge technology, these general information
and
product demonstration videos are displayed in alternative formats,
including closed captioning for the deaf/hard of hearing and audio
descriptions for the blind/visually impaired.  The combination of
these two
alternative formats also assists individuals who may have a learning
or
cognitive disability that requires additional input or repetition to
comprehend the video content.  

What is video streaming and how can it be utilized on your own PC?

Video streaming is the ability to receive video content via a Web
connection without having to download the full video file to your
computer.
 Video streaming enables the end user to start watching and listening
to
the video content as soon as your video buffer fills.   These videos
can be
accessed by downloading the free Real G2 Player at our site.  

What accessible videos are currently "playing" at the Able Channel?

The five videos available for immediate viewing at the Able Channel
include: 

1.WGBH's Car synchronized multimedia video done in English and German
2.WGBH's Elevator synchronized multimedia video 
3.Dr. Harry Murphy's introduction of Ted Kennedy at the CSUN
Conference
4.Ted Kennedy's keynote address filmed live at CSUN in March 1999
5.Jeff Pledger's exclusive interview with Ted Kennedy during CSUN

What accessible videos can you expect in the future from the Able
Channel?

We are currently formatting over 25 product demonstrations with
assistive
technology vendors who participated at the CSUN Conference.  These
video
clips will be available to view in September and highlight a variety
of
products developed to assist people with all types of disabilities. 
Some
products are still in the prototype stage and cannot be seen anywhere
else.
 As we attend upcoming conferences, we will place additional
accessible
videos on the site for your education and enjoyment. 

What can YOU do to help enable the Able Channel?

Bookmark our site and please come back often to see what new and
accessible
video content has been added.   Online chat discussions are scheduled
Friday evenings from 9-10PM EST.  Your feedback and comments are very
valuable and can be emailed to us at able@tvontheweb.com.  We want to
make
the Able Channel YOUR channel of choice!



