docno="lists-038-1976653"
received="Fri Nov 21 10:17:44 1997"
isoreceived="19971121151744"
sent="Fri, 21 Nov 1997 10:16:40 -0500"
isosent="19971121151640"
name="Internet-Drafts@ns.ietf.org"
email="Internet-Drafts@ns.ietf.org"
subject="I-D ACTION:draft-ietf-webdav-acreq-00.txt"
id="199711211517.KAA15151@ns.ietf.org"
expires="-1"


To:IETF-Announce@ns.ietf.org
Cc:w3c-dist-auth@w3.org

A New Internet-Draft is available from the on-line Internet-Drafts directories.
This draft is a work item of the WWW Distributed Authoring and 
Versioning Working Group of the IETF.

Title: Requirements for Access Control 
                          within Distributed Authoring and Versioning 
                          Environments on the World Wide Web
Author(s): H. Palmer
Filename: draft-ietf-webdav-acreq-00.txt
Pages: 18
Date: 20-Nov-97

To provide a robust model for modifying documents and data within a
distributed World Wide Web authoring environment, it is necessary to
furnish a methodology which controls access to objects.  Access control
may include the ability to read an object, modify an object, or perform
other more advanced functions upon an object.  Access control is
necessary to prevent unauthorized access or modification of objects
within the authoring environment which could lead to unintended loss,
damage or disclosure of data.
 
This document proposes requirements for the support of access control
within a Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV) environment.
It describes a model for the representation and interpretation of access
control policies, and a set of operations needed to manage policies in
that form.  It is intended that these requirements be supported within
the framework of the proposed WebDAV extensions [WEBDAV1] to HTTP
[HTTP], in the form of additional protocol operations and compliance
requirements for clients and servers

Internet-Drafts are available by anonymous FTP.  Login with the username
"anonymous" and a password of your e-mail address.  After logging in,
type "cd internet-drafts" and then
"get draft-ietf-webdav-acreq-00.txt".
A URL for the Internet-Draft is:
ftp://ds.internic.net/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-webdav-acreq-00.txt

Internet-Drafts directories are located at:

Africa:ftp.is.co.za

Europe: ftp.nordu.net
ftp.nis.garr.it

Pacific Rim: munnari.oz.au

US East Coast: ds.internic.net

US West Coast: ftp.isi.edu

Internet-Drafts are also available by mail.

Send a message to:mailserv@ds.internic.net.  In the body type:
"FILE /internet-drafts/draft-ietf-webdav-acreq-00.txt".

NOTE:The mail server at ds.internic.net can return the document in
MIME-encoded form by using the "mpack" utility.  To use this
feature, insert the command "ENCODING mime" before the "FILE"
command.  To decode the response(s), you will need "munpack" or
a MIME-compliant mail reader.  Different MIME-compliant mail readers
exhibit different behavior, especially when dealing with
"multipart" MIME messages (i.e. documents which have been split
up into multiple messages), so check your local documentation on
how to manipulate these messages.


Below is the data which will enable a MIME compliant mail reader
implementation to automatically retrieve the ASCII version of the
Internet-Draft.






Message/External-body attachment: stored




