docno="lists-064-14325281"
received="Mon Sep 24 11:09:55 2001"
isoreceived="20010924150955"
sent="Mon, 24 Sep 2001 11:11:16 -0400"
isosent="20010924151116"
name="Wendy A Chisholm"
email="wendy@w3.org"
subject="Minutes from 24 Sept 2001"
id="4.2.0.58.20010924100307.00c944a0@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-er-ig@w3.org
Cc:asgilman@iamdigex.net

Summary of action items and resolutions
- Action everyone: review the CIF 
http://zing.ncsl.nist.gov/iusr/documents/cifv1.1b.htm
we'll discuss more next week.
- Action WC: check w/AG about assumptions and connections between CIF and EARL.
- Action SBP: send summary of CR and SBP discussions to the list.
- Action WC: incorporate short descriptions of implementations and look at 
incorporating prose from Schema into the primer.  Incorporate the summary 
SBP sends to the list.
- Action WC: create RDF file of WCAG 1.0 checkpoints.
- Resolved 15 October - next joint meeting with AU.
- Action everyone: nominate items for the F2F agenda next week. Joint 
meeting with PF.

Present
- Chris
- Wendy
- Katie
- Sean
- Sharon
- Charles

*** CIF

SL free version (earlier, basically the same) is at: 
http://zing.ncsl.nist.gov/iusr/documents/cifv1.1b.htm
I'm not sure of the connection between these two that EARL.

WC Marking up the data. CIF looks like a schema to me.

SL Based on best practices. Could view as fields.

WC Assume Al's connection is that if EARL could be expanded to be the 
markup language for CIF.

SL Don't have large numbers of reports and info that need to be 
automated.  What kind of machine processing do on a report?  Perhaps, 
compare info from two users.

WC Perhaps if consumed by procurement people, could compare tools.  CMN - 
value of EARL for evaluating AU tools?

CMN Value is to query results.

SBP EARL is basically a database format, it is non-proprietary.  If putting 
reports into a database format, EARL is something to consider.

SL No incentive to put into database format since not enough of 
them.  Usability test is not looking at conformance.

SBP Data analysis can only be done by a human.

SL Right, it is context driven.

CMN What you are storing is prose descriptions.

SL Tables of time on task, or results of questionnaires.

CMN Can  use EARL for anything you can regularize.  If you have a numeric 
scale, options, that's a useful place to have EARL.  The other side of 
stacking up data, makes it easy to do a piece of evaluation, have someone 
else finish it up next week.

SL Not how a user test works.  Could translate fields into EARL or another 
language to store as database.  If there were usability tests, how would 
one use them?  What automated things would you do with them?  Some newer 
approaches - where collect data from 100's of users - you might want to do 
something with EARL in that respect.

WC Other telecon that KH is organizing?

SL GSA looking for knowledge management tools.  Using CIF to get usability 
info out in the open.  Possibly looking at using EARL to store comparisons 
of tools. But, not sure if enough data to use EARL.

Action everyone: review the CIF 
http://zing.ncsl.nist.gov/iusr/documents/cifv1.1b.htm
we'll discuss more next week.
Action WC: check w/AG about assumptions and connections between CIF and EARL.


*** Test files and expanded WART

WC At WCAG F2F decided going through test files and "voting" on what 
accessible or not would be useful exercise to determine if everyone agrees 
on interpretations of WCAG.  Expanding WART to go through test 
files.  On-line form.

CR Had associated with WCAG 1.0, now what about 2.0?

CMN Most are useful tests for both versions.

WC Status of test files?

CR Going through second pass.  Will there be an AERT 2?

WC No, there will be an HTML Techniques document with "rules."  Those rules 
taken from AERT.  AERT primarily HTML with a little CSS and scripting.  We 
will be expanding CSS techniques, and generating SMIL, SVG, etc. with 
AERT-like rules.  Please keep in touch with Matt May.


  *** tagged PDF repair process

WC When generating files in PDF, will also generate tags that are stored 
w/in the format that are basically HTML.  However, don't always get the 
best tags.  e.g.,  table header shows up as TD instead of TH. Use outline 
view to change.  A last resort, not a way to generate content, but to 
edit.  Particularly since when regenerate the file, your edits are lost. 
Not a way to send that info back to the generating application.  We don't 
deal a lot with PDF, but it is an interesting repair process that I don't 
think we've encountered or thought much about.

KHS Heather sent more info to AU list about Word creating PDF files.
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-au/2001JulSep/0113.html



*** EARL Primer to EO

WC Thoughts? Stuff to change?

Action SBP: send summary of CR and SBP discussions to the list.
Action WC: incorporate short descriptions of implementations and look at 
incorporating prose from Schema into the primer.  Incorporate the summary 
SBP sends to the list.


*** EARL to XHTML

CR Could we have a summary at end: 50 passed, 20 failed.  instead of lists 
of pass and fails.

SBP No statistical functions in CWM.

CR Can it format into a table? or graph?

SBP Table, yes.  graph - SVG?

CMN If in xml send to graphviz...although probably not the time of graph we 
want.  Passing 15 out of 27 is not particularly useful info.  These are the 
ones you passed, these are the ones you failed is an artificial measure.

CR Useful to know if passes/fails are P1s or P2.

SBP Good point. Have to put that in the EARL itself.  List of test files 
and if P1 or P2...then could merge that.

CMN Say that X, Y, Z meets checkpoint 3.1.

CR The RDF refers to a test file, test file refers to AERT, AERT refers to 
WCAG.  Therefore, could get that info that way. Is it possible to go 
through all the info using XSLT.

CMN If AERT is regularly formatted, can strip it out.  Could do, but 
quicker to do by hand.

CR Should the info go in the test file or RDF output.

SBP We'll have an RDF file on the W3C web site so that we can merge that 
info in.

CR Someone needs to create that file.

Action WC: create RDF file of WCAG 1.0 checkpoints.


*** New structure of home page

WC changed structure. Will be keeping up to date.  Let me know what you 
want to see on here, what is useful or not, etc.

CMN Racing cars.  We need racing cars on the home page.


*** Joint meetings with AU.

WC Used to have them the 1st of the month. Haven't had for a while.  Next 
week is the 1st but we'll be at the f2f.  What would we talk about in a mtg 
with them?

CMN Test suite. 1st of november is out as well due to AC mtg.

Resolved 15 October - next joint meeting with AU.

Action everyone: nominate items for the F2F agenda next week. Joint meeting 
with PF.
--
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
seattle, wa usa
/--



