docno="lists-077-4978334"
received="Wed Mar 14 07:30:53 2001"
isoreceived="20010314123053"
sent="Wed, 14 Mar 2001 07:30:38 -0500"
isosent="20010314123038"
name="Jeffrey Pledger"
email="jpledger@mindspring.com"
subject="media: AbleTV's webcast of the AFB event on 3/16/2001  . . ."
id="4.1.20010314072548.00a18100@pop.mindspring.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org

I hope that I am posting this message with enough lead time so that as many of
you as possible will be able to join in and participate in this accessible live
webcast.  You will need to have the Real G2 version 8 basic or plus player
installed on your computer in order to view the webcast.  I would also
appreciate it if you could register with the Reliacast ticketing software on
the event page so that we can obtain measurable statistics from the webcast
event.  As Always, I would appreciate it if this message could be posted on to
other lists where it hasn't been viewed yet.  Thank you in advance and I look
forward to having as many of you as possible join in the Webcast.  Smile.  

Jeffrey Pledger 
President, AbleTV.net 


tvwoRLDWIDE.COM                                                            
       PRESS RELEASE
American Foundation for the Blind Selects AbleTV to Webcast JLTLI 2001 Event
Live 
Global Participation Expected in Accessible Interactive Webcast, Friday, March
16, 1:30 PM EST at www.abletv.net on the TVWorldwide.com Network with Audience
Tracking by Reliacast 
For Immediate Release
Tuesday, March 13, 2001   
Contact:        info@tvworldwide.com              
TV Worldwide.com, Inc.             
www.tvworldwide.com              
(703) 961-9250                           

Jeff Pledger 
able@abletv.net 
www.abletv.net 
(301) 890-5944

Regina Genwright 
American Foundation for the Blind 
(212) 502-7658 
reginag@afb.net 
Chantilly, Va. -  AbleTV.net, web-based TV channel for people with disabilities
on the TVWorldwide.com network, announced today that it had been selected by
the American Foundation for the Blind to webcast the 15th Josephine L. Taylor
Leadership Institute (JTLI 2001) keynote address and panel discussion live from
the Washington Marriot Hotel, at 1:30 PM EST on March 16. The webcast will
feature keynote speaker Carl Kupfer, M.D. from the National Institute of
Health, followed by a panel discussion on ?Bringing Services to People? with
on-line participation by chat and e-mail. The webcast will feature AbleTV.net?s
captioned video streaming or ?webcapting? process to assist on-line
participants with disabilities. The free event will feature the on-line
audience tracking capability of Reliacast, Inc., selected for its
state-of-the-art ticketing software solution.
 
?We?re excited about the prospect of offering the important JLTLI event for
accessible on-line participation worldwide, ? stated Ms. Regina Genright,
director, AFB Information Center. ? AbleTV is renowned for its webcasts
addressing issues important to the community of those people with disabilities
and we welcome everyone tuning in worldwide.? 

The webcast will be directed by Jeff Pledger, President of AbleTV.net, who lost
his sight 17 years ago due to illness.  ?We are pleased to provide captioned
streaming for this live event,? remarked Pledger. ? The American Foundation for
the Blind truly is fulfilling Helen Keller?s Vision with events like this to
level the playing field for people who are blind or visually impaired.? 
 
?It will be great to have the Reliacast Virtual Turnstile software for feedback
on our traffic so we can continue to enhance the experience for online
participants,? commented Dave Gardy, CEO of TVWorldwide.com.

The program will be archived with the captioning for later viewing after the
webcast at http://www.abletv.net. Participants should have the free Real Player
installed prior to the event and can log on for their free Reliacast R-ticket
any time prior to the webcast on the 16th. Questions can be directed to
info@tvworldwide.com before and during the event.

About TVWorldwide.com and AbleTV.net
In addition to being a full-service video streaming service provider, 
The TVWorldwide.com  is building a network of community-based Internet TV
channels, each underwritten by a strategic partner, ?aimcasting? to targeted
B2B and professional special interest audiences worldwide. TVWorldwide.com has
worked with one of its first aimcast channels, AbleTV.net, to pioneer live and
archived video streaming with closed captioning and audio description to aid
web site accessibility for people with disabilities. With this advance,
AbleTV.net received its charter sponsorship from Microsoft Corporation. 
TVWorldwide.com received first round financing from PSINet Ventures, Ltd., the
wholly-owned corporate unit of PSINet, Inc. (Nasdaq:PSIX)

About the American Foundation for the Blind
The American Foundation for the Blindthe organization to which Helen Keller
devoted more than 40 years of her lifeis a national nonprofit whose mission is
to eliminate the inequities faced by the ten million Americans who are blind or
visually impaired. Headquartered in New York City, AFB maintains offices in
Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco, and a governmental relations
office in Washington, D.C.
 



