docno="lists-029-9474125"
received="Wed May 15 19:59:27 2002"
isoreceived="20020515235927"
sent="Wed, 15 May 2002 16:59:26 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20020515235926"
name="Philip Toure"
email="philtoure@yahoo.com"
subject="[smil-editors] &lt;none&gt;"
id="20020515235926.98549.qmail@web21503.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:smil-editors@w3.org


MR.PHILIP TOURE

AUDITING AND ACCOUNTING UNIT. 
FOREIGN REMITTANCE DEPT. 
ECOBANQUE LOME ? TOGO

ALTERNATIVE Email:philtoure@bankmail.org

Dear Sir, 

I am MR. PHILIP TOURE, the director in charge of auditing and accounting section of EcoBanque,Lome Republic of Togo.With due respect and regard, I have decided to contact you on a business transaction that will be very beneficial to both of us at the end of the transaction.

During our investigation and auditing in this bank, my department came across a very huge sum of money belonging to a deceased person who died on November 1997 in a plane crash and the fund has been dormant in his account with this Bank without any claim of the fund in our custody either from his family or relation before our discovery to this development.Although personally, I keep this information secret within myself and partners to enable the whole plans and idea be profitable and successful. During the time of execution, the said amount was us$10.5M(ten million Five hundred thousand United States dollars). As it may interest you to know, I got your impressive information through the business directory at chamber of commerce and Industry here in Lagos - Nigeria where 
I was searching for a good reliable contact to do the business with. I was elated the time I saw your address to propose the business to you on trust basis. 

Meanwhile all the whole arrangement to put claim over this fund as the bonafide next of kin to the deceased person , get the required approval and transfer this money to a foreign account has been put in place and directives and needed information will be relayed to you as soon as you indicate your interest and willingness to assist us and also benefit your self to this great business opportunity. In fact I could have done this deal alone but because of my position in this country as a civil servant, we are not allowed to operate a foreign account and would eventually raise an eye brow on my side during the time of transfer because I work in this bank. 

This is the actual reason why it will require a second party or fellow who will forward claims as the next of kin with affidavit of trust of oath to the Bank and also present a foreign account where he will need the money to be re-transferred into on his request as it may be after due verification and clarification by the correspondent branch of the bank, where the whole money will be remitted from to your own designated bank account. I will not fail to inform you that this transaction is 100% risk free. On smooth conclusion of this transaction, you will be entitled to 30% of the total sum as gratification, while 70% will be for my partners and me. Please, you have been advised to keep top secret as we are still in service and intend to retire from service after we conclude this deal with you. I will be monitoring the whole situation here in this bank until you confirm the money in your account and ask us to come down to your country for subsequent sharing of the fund accordin!
g to percentages previously indicated and further investment, either in your country or any 
country you advice us to invest in. All other necessary information will be sent to you 
when I hear from you. I suggest you get back to me as soon as possible stating your wish in this deal. On this Email number:philtoure@yahoo.com   Any expenses been incurred by you or me should be deducted before our normal sharing of the fund. 

Best Regards, 
MR. PHILIP TOURE

 

 

 



---------------------------------
Do You Yahoo!?
LAUNCH - Your Yahoo! Music Experience



