docno="lists-004-5905792"
received="Sat Sep 20 15:48:01 2003"
isoreceived="20030920194801"
sent="Sat, 20 Sep 2003 21:47:56 +0200"
isosent="20030920194756"
name="stevtanko@yahoo.com"
email="stevtanko@yahoo.com"
subject="BUSINESS PROPOSAL"
id="20030920194759.CB6CD137D0@dr-nick.w3.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



From Steve: Tanko(jr)




I am most happy to read about your profile. Let me start by
introducing myself fully to you. I am Steve Tanko (Jr) the son of
late Dr.S.Tanko an Airline proprietor and former Director
Federal Ministry of Finacne, sierra Leone, West Africa, Africa.

You may be aware of the Civil war in my Country over the years and
presently over Diamonds, Precious Stones and other Mineral resources
abound in my country. During the war, My father had allocation of
some Diamond sites. He had Presidential allocation, which all the
cabinet members shared. The money he realized is  a
large sum  of money, that My late father depostied in a
security & finance Company in Europe.

Before the shipment, the consignment were tagged family treasure. it
was shipped through diplomatic courier service to beat the security
both in Sierra Leone and in Europe.

Few months latter, there was a misunderstanding between my late
father and the government of sierra Leone. so we have to flee to
Europe for political Asylum. 
My family is not allowed to enter Sierra Leone for now.
Early this year, my father took ill and died of heart attack, before
his death, he told me everything that has transpired between him and
the government of sierra leone, he gave me all the documents
concerning the deposit. all the documents are in my possession
which I can send to you anytime for your perusal.

The assistance I need from you, is for you to act as my partner and
secondly to make a change of ownership of the boxes to your name, after that we
will discuss with the security and finance company on how the consignment
will be out from the security company and the money wired to your
nominated account.

My father told me that the finance and security company officials,
does not know the contents of the boxes, only what they know is that
it is a family treasure. it is only one of their executive directors
that know that the contents of the boxes is money. he assured me that
he will assist me whenever we are ready to claim the consignment.

You can now understand my plight and the reason for my contacting
you. I want you to make all the necessary arrangements on how the
money will be transferred and re-invested 
into a very viable business. If you want all the documents, I
will forward it to you and also give you the contact information of
the finance and security company for you to start communicating with
them in regards to the collection of the funds. this will enable you
discuss directly with the executive director of the company and confirm
everything from him and also ask him every question you may deem fit.

Please reply to my private email address.(stevtanko@lycos.com)

I wait for your urgent reply.

Yours truely 

Steve Tanko(jr)



