docno="lists-070-15006508"
received="Thu May 29 22:02:22 2003"
isoreceived="20030530020222"
sent="Thu, 29 May 2003 21:01:16 -0500"
isosent="20030530020116"
name="Gregg Vanderheiden"
email="gv@trace.wisc.edu"
subject="FW: first review"
id="002901c3264f$5b065780$096fa8c0@USD320002X"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="first review"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-wai-gl@w3.org



Yes Lisa,

Give it a whirl and post it.  This is such a tough one that we will probably
have to keep taking tries at it til we close in on it.  

Check out the post that just went out on criteria for required and best
practice.  That is our best guess as of today.
 
Gregg

 -- ------------------------------ 
Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D. 

-----Original Message-----
From: w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org [mailto:w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org] On
Behalf Of Lisa Seeman
Sent: Thursday, May 22, 2003 3:15 AM
To: w3c-wai-gl@w3.org
Subject: first review


draft:

well, at a first glance I will try and say what I would like to see and
leave 
the  how we word it for now.

2-E3

this is weak. Dyslexics who have a hard time coping their credit card
numbers 
and filling in forms do not get any except in best practices of an
extended 
checkpoint.

 
3 -C2  decoding:
I would like to see some way to say at a minimal conformance that some
publicly 
avilible decoders/ knowledge systems, and 95% of people  decode this
correctly. 
This will be a hard one to word - but it should apply to both ambiguitly
and 
diatric markes.

So resolve the ambiguities that are pronounce - general rules of context
will 
not resolve them.

Specifically we could require that,
" when the content is more important then the writing style, one remove 
Syntactic and Semantic ambiguity, " (but not word ambiguity).



Syntactic ambiguity occurs when there is more than one possible
syntactic 
parses for a grammatical sentence. For example, the sentence Fasten the 
assembly with the lever. This may be either an instruction to fasten the

assembly using a lever, or an instruction to fasten the assembly, which
has a 
lever attached to it. With the prepositional phrase with the lever can
be 
attached to the verb or to the noun phrase object. However often a
Syntactic 
ambiguity is caused by a word ambiguity- in our example the word with is

ambiguous. With  could mean using or connected to. 
Semantic ambiguity
Semantic ambiguity occurs when other knowledge sources are required to 
determine the meaning of a sentence.  For example, the sentence Start
the 
engine and keep it running, the fact that it refers to the engine is not

inferable from the single clause keep it running. The ambiguity is
caused by 
the difficulty in resolving the pronoun. 
 were the context can not decifen the word




checkpoint 4-C2   and C3 - This one I do not get entirely. It seems to
be 
requiring conformance/compatibility to proprietary technologies such as 
operating systems. This seems inherently against accessibility.  

I have a lot of issues with the wording hear. I propose that we first
decide 
and agree on what we want to achieve with this checkpoint and then
consider the 
wording.
I propose that what we want to achieve is interoperability and
usefulness IE: 
that the accessibility options are available to the user without too
much 
burden on the user- IE that they work in the different user environments
as 
much as possible

What we want to avoid in this check point is to predigest the guidelines

against new generation solutions, making them impossible to create them
to 
achieve conformance.However if we can encourage new solution providers
to 
become more interoperable then that is a good thing.

I propose that we reach consensus on what we want to achieve hear and
then work 
on how we word it.


I also propose that checkpoint 3.E1  needs a redo in the new style. I
will give 
it a try if others agree. 


All teh best

Lisa



