docno="lists-071-10528920"
received="Tue Sep 30 22:25:23 2003"
isoreceived="20031001022523"
sent="Wed, 1 Oct 2003 03:25:16 +0100"
isosent="20031001022516"
name="Tom Croucher"
email="tcroucher@netalleynetworks.com"
subject="Use Cases"
id="003001c387c3$419ac3a0$0300000a@bobthefrog"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:"'WCAG List'"<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


Hi Everyone,

Here are my use cases for WCAG and the supporting documents. They are
based around my original use cases and Sailesh's. They also have some
thought from discussion with Roberto and some other friend of mine who
speak English as a second language. I know it's another pdf, but I did
these in word so at 3am I don't feel up to doing something sensible with
them. If it isn't an accessible pdf I apologise and if someone want to
make an accessible version and send it to the list again that would be
great.

I also had another thought with regards to the document view. After the
suggestion of users being able to choose the elements (probably rules
for the guideline) which were applicable to them to look at in a
customised document view I had an idea. We might be able to encourage
people to move into the realms of Core+ by allowing them to tick off
items as they go and then generate a custom Core+ compliance badge/claim
for them. There are only so many combinations and such a thing could
easily be automated. This might be a nice way to encourage people to do
more than the perceived minimum.

Text of the pdf follows.

Thanks,

Tom

Co-founder Netalley Networks
(http://www.netalleynetworks.com),
BSc(Hons) Computing Student / NITRO Project Staff University of
Sunderland
(http://www.sunderland.ac.uk),
Accessibility Co-ordinator Plone CMS
(http://www.plone.org)


WCAG Use Cases:

Professionals

Web Professional
Unmotivated - Motivated
Technical
Motivation, Unmotivated 
Starting Point, Most specific information relating to their job (i.e.
HTML techniques)
General Document Usage, Technology specific with minimal work, no use of
best practices, gives up easily especially if all information is not all
in one place. Wants as much specific relevant (probably quick)
information as possible.

Motivation, Apathetic
Starting Point, General Advice which is technically orientated (i.e.
Techniques gateway) 
General Document Usage, Technology specific probably usage. Probably
read best practice and general techniques without the need for a one
stop shop. Might get discouraged by having to sift for information.
Would probably do extended if it isn't seen as too much additional work.

Motivation, Motivated
Starting Point, Guidelines
General Document Usage, Read guidelines, attempting to understand
motivation. Look at general technical and specific technical information
for a group of technologies. 


Role Specific Web Professional
Unmotivated - Motivated
Technical (specific area)

Motivation, Unmotivated
Starting Point, Techniques Gateway
General Document Usage, Find the techniques relating to their specific
role and apply them.

Motivation, Apathetic
Starting Point, Techniques Gateway
General Document Usage, Find the techniques relating to their specific
role and apply them, also looking at best practice and external links.

Motivation, Motivated 
Starting Point, Techniques Gateway
General Document Usage, Read around guidelines for the areas they are
covering and use general and specific techniques and best practices.


Legal Assessor
Apathetic - Motivated
Non-technical

Motivation, Apathetic
Starting Point, Guidelines
General Document Usage, Read the guidelines and use them to form / check
their organisational policy.

Motivation, Motivated
Starting Point, Guidelines
General Document Usage, Read the guidelines and use them to form / check
their organisational policy. Check that people responsible for
development are using techniques. Look at what techniques are available
for technologies company has invested in. Probably look at general and
specific technology techniques while ccompanied by a technical expert. 


Accessibility Professional
Motivated
Technical

Motivation, Motivated 
Starting Point, Anywhere 
General Document Usage, Quickly reference specific pieces of
information, from guidelines to techniques to best practices for
whatever they are working on. Find references to external material e.g.
ALA articles on techniques. Get familiarity with guidelines and
techniques. 


Technology Decision Maker
Motivated
Technical

Motivation, Motivated 
Starting Point, General Technology Techniques
General Document Usage, Look at general technology techniques and best
practices to find suitable product to base a solution on.


WCAG Migration
Apathetic - Motivated
Technical

Motivation, Apathetic
Starting Point, Mapping
General Document Usage, Try to equate points from WCAG 1.0 to points
from WCAG 2.0 so as to change and update only where necessary using the
mapping document as a guideline. Possibly referring to techniques of new
documents.

Motivation, Motivated
Starting Point, Mapping
General Document Usage, Migrate points from WCAG 1.0 to WCAG 2.0 but
then refer to the guidelines and proceed to understand the new
guidelines and techniques to fully comply with the spirit of WCAG 2.0. 


High Level Policy Maker (Govt.)
Apathetic - Motivated
Non-technical

Motivation, Apathetic 
Starting Point, Guideline 
General Document Usage, Use guidelines to form general policy.

Motivation, Motivated 
Starting Point, Guideline 
General Document Usage, Use guideline to form policy. Assess as a legal
definition of accessibility. Look through techniques to possibly make a
standard for government. e.g. example accesskey standard from the UK
govt.


Non-Professionals

PwD Rights Assessment
Motivated
Non-technical

Motivation, Motivated
General Document Usage, Starting Point, Guideline Use the guideline to
work out what they should be able to expect from web sites. Perhaps
refer to specific techniques when they have found something hard on a
web site. Look for specific solutions to certain problems for
clarification.


Webmaster
Motivated
Technical

Motivation, Motivated
Starting Point, Technology specific techniques
General Document Usage, Use general technology techniques and specific
techniques to find information relating to technologies being used.
Perhaps read the standard.  



International Issues 

With Translations
This category of people should not behave any differently to the
standard use cases. However external links in English should be
referred to as without translations in terms of the motivational factor.

Without Translations
This category divides in two, those who have good English as a second
language and those who don't. Those who do can be treated as with
translations. Those who don't have good English as a second language
find untranslated documents very difficult and will get frustrated
easily. This will mean they are less inclined to stick with the
documents. A machine translation may help to a small degree, but the
general feeling is the value of machine translation is a best minimal,
at worst destructive to the carefully crafted meanings of the documents.

Non-Eurmerican (European and American) culture s
Some cultures, most probably Asian or African, may have differing
expectations of the standards. While the impact of those expectations on
the development of the guideline is beyond the scope of this document it
is a point worth noting exists. These cultures may also expect different
organisation or presentation of information than Eurmerican cultures. As
such there needs to be some thorough investigation of the issues
surrounding use of the documents by people from non Eurmerican cultures.
This is something that could be addressed at the Tokyo f2f.




application/pdf attachment: wcag-usecases.pdf




