docno="lists-093-14850156"
received="Fri Jun 11 10:10:54 1999"
isoreceived="19990611141054"
sent="Fri, 11 Jun 1999 15:09:46 +0100"
isosent="19990611140946"
name="Dave  J Woolley"
email="DJW@bts.co.uk"
subject="RE: Bug reports . . . 17 of them . . . ."
id="81E4A2BC03CED111845100104B62AFB52842B7@stagecoach.bts.co.uk"
inreplyto="Bug reports . . . 17 of them . . . ."
expires="-1"


To:www-amaya@w3.org

Apologies for repost of original; Send is too close to Message in
Outlook....

[ To avoid confusion, I'm not affiliated in any way with the
  Amaya team. ]

> attracted by an open-source WYSIWIG HTML editor - and Amaya is the
> only one.  I could pay a few hundred dollars for a commercial
editor,

I doubt that Amaya is funded on this basis, although maybe many
of the people involved sympathise with it.

> 14 - Without applying any attributes for vertical positioning
>      of text within a table cell, Amaya displays them as being
>      to the top, whilst in fact there is no attribute, and 
>      Netscape displays the text in the centre of the cell.

In this case, the defaults are not centring, but, the
user supplied style and in default the browser supplied
style.  Generally HTML is not a layout control language
(use PDF of postscript for that), although, by fully 
specifying a style sheet you can go part way (users are still
allowed to override the style sheet and browsers are not 
required to implement every feature - even IE4 allows 
features to be disabled - see the accessibility options).

>      Then I added some text in the middle of this, selected it and
>      tried to make it 12 point Times, not bold or italic.  The
>      results look fine on Amaya, but both Netscape 4.6 and
>      MSIE4 display the Times text in bold.  I have enclosed this
>      file as a demonstration - bug2.html.  Also, a simpler 
>      deliberate example of it is in that file.

You had generated an element SPAN with a CSS attribute style. You
need to
take a software which supports CSS to see the result.

Moreover, the published terms of reference for Amaya are that
it is a test bed for HTML 4.0 and style sheets; the HTML 3.2 
physical layout features are deprecated in HMTL 4.0 (rightly
so - I think the big two lost the focus of HTML badly on this
issues - if you want a DTP language, use one, don't just try
to change the current fashionable language into something it was
never supposed to be when there are better, but less fashionable
alternatives (this of course is wishful thinking, all software
languages, file formats, etc, start focussed and then expand to
do everything)).

Even SPAN STYLE is bad style; it means that you are not really 
thinking about the document structure; you should use classes and
a separate style sheet.  If you are creating an information page,
rather than an advertising page, you will almost certainly get
things across better by appropriate use of STRONG, EM, and Hn,
and let the user choose the rendering style.


>      The problem is that Amaya turns on boldface with a "span
style" 
>      command of "font-weight: bold" and then expects to be able to

>      specify non-bold in a subsequent "span style" command which 
>      includes "font-style: normal".

I think you mean nested, not subsequent.  SPAN has a mandatory
closing tag and the style will be popped when that is encountered.
(A common HTML error is to treat TAGs as turning on and off
features, but not as representing structure, with the result
that they are often not nested properly.  Such HTML won't validate,
and XML is meaningless without proper structure.

Incidentally, Netscape 4.x is rather out of date in standards conformance.
Netscape 5 
will probably over take IE, though.

[ Formatting may be broken because of save and restore in Outlook ]



