docno="lists-032-3245933"
received="Sat Jun  8 14:13:01 2002"
isoreceived="20020608181301"
sent="Sat, 08 Jun 2002 19:12:04"
isosent="20020608231204"
name="Mr. Bill Sahkol"
email="sahkol@flashmail.com"
subject="INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE"
id="200206081812.OAA15196@tux.w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org


Dear Sir, 

First, I must solicit your strictest confidence in this transaction, this is by it's nature of being utterly confidential & top secret. 

I got your contact through the World Trade Encyclopedia. I am a Sierra Leonean businessman. I was formally into the importation and sale of medical equipment in my native country, Sierra -Leone.  My operational base was in Freetown, the capital city. In January 1999, when the second civil war broke out in my country, my office and warehouse were burnt by the Revolutionary United Front Rebels, who invaded Freetown. In that attack, I lost all my properties and assets. I was left with virtually nothing, except some money I had in the bank. 

When the United Nations sent in troops to quell the rebel's onslaught and there was a relative peace in Freetown, I returned to business, but this time, I invested my resources in the Mining of Diamond which abounds in my country and I exported the Diamond through the help of a third party, some Lebanese who were very much versed in the industry to Antwerp in Belgium. The returns I got from this business was quite good and my life was gradually picking up again until early this year when the Sierra- Leonean government banned private exportation of the Diamond deposit and also called on the United Nations to ban the sale of Sierra - Leonean Diamond at the international market. 

The U.N obliged the government and it is now illegal to sell/buy Diamond emanating from Sierra-Leone. Following this 
action, the government of my country clamped down on all businessmen who had made fortunes selling Diamond. 

Consequently, my newly acquired properties were seized again and I had no option than to leave thecountry immediately. But I did that only after I was able to first move my money out of the country. I had US$10.500,000(Ten 

Million Five Hundred Thousand United States Dollars) in my domiciliary account in Freetown. I had to move the money out of the Country through a very secret arranged channel. This was done in very unconventional methods, by my friend an official at the "Security Minting & Printing Company" of my country. 

Now, the money is in OVERSEA COUNTRY under the custody of a private financial outfit in abroad. The help I am now seeking is someone who has the capabilities of receiving the US$10.500,000 in his bank account, because I am on self-exile in a neighboring West African country from where I am trying to work out my traveling documents to enable me travel abroad. 

All you need to have is a power of attorney from me, empowering you as the recipient of this fund in your bank account. Secondly, after the said fund has been remitted into your bank account , I would want you to help me get a permanent resident permit in your country. 

For your efforts and the expenses you may incur in the course of this transaction, you will be entitled to 30% of the total 

sum. But we shall have an agreement to the effect that you WILL NOT take or spend out of my (70%) money until such a time when I am able to be with you. 

Please, feel free to reach me on my  e-mail address (billsahkol@usa.com). When sending an email do remember to include your full name and your direct telephone/fax numbers preferably your private telephone and fax lines. 

I must apologize for the inconveniences this may cause you. 

Waiting to hear from you . 

Best regards, 

Mr. Bill Sahkol. 



