docno="lists-087-0747739"
received="Tue Apr  6 11:10:20 2004"
isoreceived="20040406151020"
sent="Tue, 6 Apr 2004 10:10:10 -0500"
isosent="20040406151010"
name="Sylvie Duchateau"
email="sylvie.duchateau@snv.jussieu.fr"
subject="[Business case]: some typing mistakes"
id="5.0.2.1.2.20040406161640.00a4d780@mail.snv.jussieu.fr"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To:<wai-eo-editors@w3.org>



Hello,

here are some typing mistakes found in the suite business case.

1. In overview, introduction, second paragrap: "There is an initial cost

for organziations implementing Web accessibility;" typing mistake in 
organizations.

2. Several times on the overview page we find the word: accessibilty.

Also two times in social factors.

3. In technical factors:
In paragraph: "Identifying Technical Factors for a Specific
Organization". Typo error: first list fourth bullet: "be prepared for
advanced Web 
technologies? provide future-compatibility of you technology?" write
your 
technology.

4. In financial factors:
Bullet: How will the organization's specific Web site issues impact 
on-going costs?
Typing mistake in "content, such as providing captions for the audio in 
multimedia content. Similarly, the type of content and the development
and 
testing environment in
the organziation determines the impact of accessibility on added
(quality 
assurance) testing time." organziation instead of organization.

5. In policy page :
introduction: Legal and policy factors apply differently to specific 
organizations and situations. For example, one organization might be 
required by explicit government
regulations to make their Web sites accessible, while other organization

follows the Web accessibility policies recommended by its trade
association 
and regulations to make their Web sites accessible, while other 
organization follows the Web accessibility policies recommended by its 
trade association and
required by a partner company." Isn't it: "while other organizations 
follow.. their" or "while another organization follows?".


6. In section: "Identifying Legal and Policy Factors for a Specific 
Organization" bullet: ". @@ think this needs to be a section below & not
a 
question@@ Is it helpful to include the risk of failing to provide 
accessible Web sites?"
action for not complying with requirements for Web accessibility.
Sometimes 
the legal requirements for an organization might not be clear. In such
cases, some organization determine that it is in their best interest
(financially 
and otherwise) to make their sites accessible, rather than risk legal 
action. correct: some organizations determine.

7. In section "industry and Non-Governmental Organization (NGO)" it
seems 
that a word is missing in sentence in second paragraph: "Many
corporations 
and NGOs establish their own policies for Web accessibility, which are 
often more extensive those required by government policies."

Regards

Sylvie 



